 These are among three factors the alliance is blaming for the spiralling food prices and high cost of living. In its manifesto, the Ruto-led alliance says the country is walking through what it describes as a perfect economic storm; a storm it attributes to both internal and external factors. Globally, the alliance claims the Ukrainian war and the net effect of Covid 19 pandemic are to blame for the surge in prices and shortage of critical commodities including petroleum, edibles oils and fertilizer which are key factors and drivers of the economy critical to the prices of basic commodities. The rise in global inflation and interest rates has also been singled out for making the payment of the country’s foreign debt expensive with investors unwilling to roll over Kenya's bonds upon maturity. Locally, the Kenya Kwanza alliance says the country is in financial distress which has a negative impact on the economy. In its arithmetic, the alliance says the country is swamped by debt and interests against a struggling revenue projection. “Our public finances are not in good order is something that can no longer be denied.  Interest cost this financial year is projected to be Sh660 billion and total debt service at over a Ksh.1 trillion, against a projected (and optimistic) Sh2.1 trillion revenue target,” said Ruto. “Interest cost is now the single largest expenditure item on the recurrent budget, exceeding the National Government wage bill (Sh550b) and dwarfing the county governments’ equitable revenue share (Sh370b).” The Kenya Kwanza alliance points to a skewed economic structure for the country’s economic turmoil. The alliance stating that the country invested in capital-intensive projects which have a little or slow multiplier effect on the majority of the citizens who are left impoverished. Ruto has singled out the Standard Gauge Railways and the Nairobi Expressway as projects that have gobbled up billions of shillings but with little net returns to the masses. “In recent years, growth has been dominated by large public infrastructure projects (SGR railway and the new Nairobi Expressway for example), which have very little multiplier effect on the economy.  Domestic financing of the same has crowded out the productive economy in the use of credit and other resources,” he said. Equally, a rise in the importation of food items to the country is said to have exposed the country to the mercies of the merchants and traders. The alliance indicates food importation has risen over the past decade from 10-17% per cent whose net effect is leaving the country vulnerable to the global food supply shocks that the country is currently experiencing. 