 Thousands of Akurino believers attended the conference, which commemorated the church's 100th anniversary in Kenya. The religious event was tinged with heavy political symbolism 50 days before the election on August 9th. President Kenyatta began by unpacking a bag of goodies that included government jobs, a personal donation to the church of ten million shillings, and a plot of land in Naivasha worth 100 million shillings. “Hii shamba nimewapa title mujenge kanisa itakuwa ya vizazi vijavyo...huyu nimempatia kazi akuwe chairman board ya water harvesting,” President Kenyatta said. The president, who avoided direct succession politics, appeared to rally the Akurino church behind the Raila-Karua ticket. “Mumesimama na mimi kwa muda nyingi ninawashukuru sana na mimi nawaaahakikishia sitawaachilia pia..,” he added. The Head of State also urged school principals to allow Akurino students to wear turbans during the gathering. According to the Head of State, the Constitution guarantees all Kenyans the right to worship wherever they are. “Every religion has its doctrines, our Muslim brothers and sisters go wherever they want in their hijabs and nobody questions them. The Sikh wear their turbans in schools, churches and businessess and no one questions them. “I want to reiterate, more so to our school principals who are still discriminating the Akurinu because of their turbans, that is not right. There is no law that bars anyone from identifying themselves by their religion,” Uhuru said. Meanwhile, Raila Odinga, the Azimio presidential candidate, praised the Akurino church and promised that if elected, he would continue where President Kenyatta left off. “Sisi tutaendelea kusimama na nyinyi....walisema baba hawezi pand mlima nikawaambia niko na tinga tinga na martha pande hii..inawezekana.,” Raila said. Elsewhere, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, continued combing through the Lower Eastern Region and held rallies in Kilome, Kathonzweni and Mlolongo in Machakos and Makueni. “Tumeamua hapa Lower Eastern yote ni Raila Odinga ndio tukomboe nchi hii,” Kalonzo said. 