The
Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade on Friday, holding that there is
no longer a federal constitutional right to an abortion. The
opinion is the most consequential Supreme Court decision in decades and will
transform the landscape of women's reproductive health in America. Going
forward, abortion rights will be determined by states, unless Congress
acts.  Already, nearly half of the states have or will pass laws that ban
abortion while others have enacted strict measures regulating the procedure. "Roe
was egregiously wrong from the start," Justice Samuel Alito wrote in his
majority opinion. "Its reasoning was exceptionally weak, and the decision
has had damaging consequences. And far from bringing about a national
settlement of the abortion issue, Roe and Casey have enflamed debate and
deepened division." In
a joint dissenting opinion, Justices Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena
Kagan heavily criticized the majority, closing: "With sorrow -- for this
Court, but more, for the many millions of American women who have today lost a
fundamental constitutional protection -- we dissent." The
opinion represents the culmination of a decades-long effort on the part of
critics of abortion seeking to return more power to the states.  It was made
possible by a solid six-member conservative majority -- including three of
Donald Trump's nominees. At
least 21 states have laws or constitutional amendments already in place that
would make them certain to attempt to ban abortion as quickly as possible,
according to the Guttmacher Institute,
which favors abortion rights. And an additional four states are likely to ban
abortions as soon as possible without federal protections. Chief
Justice John Roberts did not join the majority, writing in a concurring opinion
that he would not have overturned Roe but instead would have only uphold
Mississippi's law banning abortions after 15 weeks. Similar
to leaked draft The
final opinion was strikingly similar to the draft written by Alito that was
leaked earlier this year. It repeats his scornful language towards the original
Roe v. Wade decision that enshrined abortion rights. Like
the draft opinion, Alito included a list of cases that also rested on a right
to privacy, as Alito asserted that Roe was distinct from those cases. "What
sharply distinguishes the abortion right from the rights recognized in the
cases on which Roe and Casey rely is something that both those decisions
acknowledged: Abortion destroys what those decisions call 'potential life' and
what the law at issue in this case regards as the life of an 'unborn human
being,'" Alito wrote, in a line that was also present in the draft. What's
new is Alito's response to the dissent, jointly written by the three liberal
justices. The dissent would not have been written at the time that the leaked
draft was circulated around the court. "The
dissent is very candid that it cannot show that a constitutional right to
abortion has any foundation, let alone a 'deeply rooted' one, 'in this Nation's
history and tradition.'" Alito wrote. "The dissent does not identify
any pre-Roe authority that supports such a right -- no state constitutional provision
or statute, no federal or state judicial precedent, not even a scholarly
treatise." In
that four-page section, Alito said that the dissent's failure "engage with
this long tradition is devastating to its position." Challenge
brought by Mississippi Championed
by supporters of abortion and long reviled by critics, Roe v. Wade was decided
in 1973 establishing a constitutional right to abortion before fetal viability
which most experts say occurs now at around 23-24 weeks of pregnancy. The
decision was reaffirmed in 1992, in Planned Parenthood v. Casey. A
majority of the court in that case replaced Roe's framework with a new standard
to determine the validity of laws restricting abortions. The court said that a
regulation cannot place an "undue burden" on the right to abortion
which is defined as a "substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking
an abortion before the fetus attains viability." Before
the court was Mississippi's Gestational Age Act, passed in 2018 but blocked by
two federal courts, which allows abortion after 15 weeks "only in medical
emergencies or for severe fetal abnormality" and has no exception for rape
or incest. A district court blocked the law, holding that it is in direct
violation of Supreme Court precedent legalizing abortion nationwide prior to
viability, which can occur at around 23-24 weeks of pregnancy. A
panel of judges on the 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the district
court holding that in an "unbroken line dating to Roe v. Wade, the Supreme
Court's abortion cases have established (and affirmed and re-affirmed) a
woman's right to choose an abortion before viability." The court said
states may "regulate abortion procedures prior to viability" so long
as they do not ban abortion. "The law at issue is a ban," the court
held. Mississippi
appealed the decision to the Supreme Court, and after the justices agreed to
hear the case, the state raised the stakes and argued that the justices should
not only uphold the law but also invalidate Roe and Casey. Mississippi
Solicitor General Scott Stewart was blunt at oral arguments. "Roe
vs. Wade and Planned Parenthood versus Casey haunt our country," Stewart
said. "They have no basis in the Constitution. They have no home in our
history or traditions. They've damaged the democratic process. They poison the
law. They've choked off compromise. For 50 years they've kept this court at the
center of a political battle that it can never resolve and 50 years on, they
stand alone. Nowhere else does this court recognize a right to end a human
life." Solicitor
General Elizabeth Prelogar argued on behalf of the Biden administration in
support of the clinics. She urged the justices to uphold precedent and avoid a
ruling that would disproportionally harm women who have come to depend upon the
decision. "For
a half century, this Court has correctly recognized that the Constitution
protects a woman's fundamental right to decide whether to end a pregnancy
before viability," she argued. "That guarantee, that the state cannot
force a woman to carry a pregnancy to term and give birth, has engendered
substantial individual and societal reliance. The real-world effects of
overruling Roe and Casey would be severe and swift." She
added: "The court has never revoked a right that is so fundamental to so
many Americans and so central to their ability to participate fully and equally
in society.  Julie
Rikelman, a lawyer for Jackson Women's Health Organization, the only licensed
abortion clinic in Mississippi and Sacheen Carr-Ellis, the clinic's medical
director, told the justices that Mississippi's ban on abortion "two months
before viability" is "flatly unconstitutional under decades of
precedent."