Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo now
claims that the agreement his Tujibebe Wakenya Party entered into with the
Deputy President William Ruto-led Kenya Kwanza Alliance was not official since
it was apparently not put into writing. This follows Kabogo's last week announcement
that his party will no longer attend any Kenya Kwanza rallies on grounds that
United Democratic Alliance (UDA) politicians are allegedly given priority at
the events while his members are being 'bullied', gagged and forced to
play second fiddle. According to Kabogo, he only joined the Kenya
Kwanza alliance after DP Ruto promised him that should he form the next
government counties would be allocated additional development funds by the
national government based on population. This would see Kiambu, the second largest
county in terms of population in Kenya, allocated the second largest budget
after Nairobi. After Tujibebe Wakenya and Kenya Kwanza came
to a compromise, Kabogo alleges that the two outfits inked a general agreement
on the same but verbally agreed that more details would be added onto the deal. This, Kabogo says, however never materialized. "I only joined Kenya Kwanza because DP
Ruto agreed with me on my proposal that additional revenue allocation to
counties should be based on population and that it would be put into writing.
The agreement was a general one awaiting specifics to be put into the agreement
which unfortunately until now has not happened," Kabogo said in an
interview with KTN News on Wednesday. Kabogo went on to say that he was not
surprised by UDA officials sidelining his camp, noting that his close
acquaintances warned him against getting into bed with the Kenya Kwanza brigade
but he had already made up his mind. According to Kabogo, it first crossed his
mind that Kenya Kwanza might renege on the initial agreement after he attended
a recent rally in which UDA members publicly dismissed the outfit as a
political party. "When we were having the express train
going to Kiambu you heard them say on live TV that there is nothing called
Kenya Kwanza. It was a marriage of convenience with a lot of honesty and bits
of dishonesty," said Kabogo. "DP Ruto's deputy designate is the one
that leads this team. MPs come and say all these things while the deputy
designate is on the same vehicle and he does not say anything." He correspondingly stated that deceit was a
part of local politics and that he had come to terms with the alleged
'betrayal' citing that there were no permanent friends in the intricate game of
political chess.  While insisting that he had essentially
severed all ties with Kenya Kwanza to focus on his Kiambu governorship bid,
Kabogo urged Kenyans to vote wisely and only elect leaders who will better
their fortunes once the polls are set and done.