Deputy
President William Ruto has now come out guns blazing to defend embattled Nairobi
Senator Johnson Sakaja over his degree drama. The
country’s second-in-command has told off those chastising Sakaja, claiming
that their plans to frustrate his bid for the Nairobi governor’s seat in the
August polls will amount to nought. DP Ruto argued that his
competitors have sensed defeat in the Nairobi's top seat race and have hence started
peddling lies about Sakaja's academic qualification in a bid to ensure he is denied
clearance. "Sakaja ni shujaa ambaye
amesoma na anaeleweka. Wachaneni na Sakaja amesoma na akona makaratasi.
Tunataka mkutane na sisi kwa debe, wacheni kuzungusha Sakaja kwa kesi baada ya
kesi," he said at a rally in Kisii on Thursday. "Kwa sababu wameona tumewashinda,
sasa wanamtafutia hujuma Sakaja ati wanasema hana makaratasi." The Kenya Kwanza alliance presidential
flagbearer further called on his competitors to allow the Independent Electoral
and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) execute its mandate without interference. He
further urged the opposing side to let Kenyans have the free will to decide on
the leaders they want in office at the August General Election. “We want the IEBC left to manage
the elections. Watu wawache kupiga simu kila mahali kujaribu kuhujumu Sakaja
kwa sababu ameonekana atashinda kiti cha ugavana Nairobi. The people of Kenya
are going to decide on their leaders," said Ruto. Sakaja, who is contending for the
city’s top seat on DP Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party ticket, has
of late been put on the spot over alleged lack of proper academic
documentation. The Senator has since accused his political rivals, led by
President Uhuru Kenyatta, of plotting to frustrate his gubernatorial bid
by burying him in court cases over his credentials. Speaking during a Kenya Kwanza rally
at Mukuru Kwa Njenga on Tuesday, he reaffirmed to his supporters that he has the
required papers to contest for the seat, adding that his rivals are
only trying to taint his image in a bid to sabotage his candidacy. The High Court is on Sunday set to rule on the validity of
the degree certificate Sakaja presented to IEBC in his quest to ascend to the
position of Nairobi Governor.  This after the court on Wednesday suspended a decision by the
Commission for University Education (CUE)  to revoke the recognition of
his university degree pending hearing and determination of his case.