  While terming the attacks as “misguided and diversionary”, PS Kibicho faulted some of the aspirants for blaming President Kenyatta for their own individual eligibility to contest for their preferred seats in the August polls.  Speaking at HGM Ting’ang’a Secondary School in Kiambu County on Friday, the PS chided a section of the political class accusing them of shying away from addressing legitimate questions on their ethical and educational backgrounds but instead tainting the name of the head of state. “If you do not have the required academic credentials, why should you blame the President who is completely out of the picture? Please let us focus on the people who will be on the ballot,” he said. He went on to point out that some of the politicians were exploiting their rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution to insult and ridicule the President in a bid to get political mileage. “Some of the politicians lack vision, and that's why we have seen others make police uniforms an agenda. If you have been given a microphone, sell your agenda for electorate buy-in,” he remarked. “Direct your attacks to your opponents – not President Kenyatta. He is not contesting for any position in the upcoming elections. He will leave office after the polls.” The PS sentiments follow recent sentiments by Nairobi governor aspirant Johnson Sakaja who accused President Kenyatta of using his influence in Kenya and Uganda to frustrate his August gubernatorial bid. Sakaja has been under public scrutiny after a complaint was filed against him at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) tribunal for allegedly not having the required educational qualifications.  In regard to the security preparedness in the electioneering period, Kibicho said the government had beefed up its operations to help deal with any attempts to cause violence. Kibicho at the same time cautioned politicians against incitement and mobilization of youths, warning that those involved would be arrested. “Some people are thriving on insults and the politics of hate. We are witnessing a trend where intoxicated youth are deployed to disrupt meetings. Reject such retrogressive politics and let us all remain good neighbours and a united nation,” he said.  Consequently, Kibicho directed security teams in Kiambu to step up the war against illicit liquor and drugs as a way of battling the contraband liquors in the area where they have led to a lot of derailment. The County has been on the government radar as it launched a crackdown against contraband liquor and other drugs that are blamed for slowing economic growth and incubating societal ills including crime and broken families.