Homa Bay Governor aspirant Dr. Evans Kidero
has dismissed claims that her competitor, ODM candidate’s Gladys Wanga, was nominated
through consensus as previously stated by the party leader Raila Odinga. Kidero
says that Odinga’s past announcement that the seven aspirants had shelved their
ambitions in favour of the incumbent County Woman Representative to carry the
ODM flag in the governor’s race was false, alleging that they were coerced to
step down. “There
were about nine of us who were running and it took about three days for all the
nine to drop off. It was done through coercion; he (Odinga) said there was consensus but
there was no consensus,” Kidero said in an interview with KTN News on
Wednesday. “Mbadi was
called on March 23 and told to drop off, this was confirmed on Saturday the
26th. On 24th, Magwanga and the rest were called and told to drop off and I was
called on 27th and told it was important but I said No.” The
former Nairobi Governor said that the ODM leadership sought to bulldoze a
candidate through to the seat, in complete disregard of the will of the people,
which is why he declined to step down. "I
said No, it is important that the Homa Bay people make a choice of the person
they want through a process. Article 1 of the Constitution says that the sovereign
power belongs to the people and they should exercise this sovereignty through
the electing of leaders,” Kidero noted. Kidero, who
is now seeking the top Homa Seat on an independent ticket, ditched the ODM party
after Wanga was nominated as the flagbearer on a joint ticket with former
Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga as her running mate. He further divulged that at the final meeting
held in a Nairobi hotel on the day the ODM chief made the announcement, he
(Kidero) had not been invited. "They were summoned to a meeting in
Nairobi and I was not invited; Louis Otieno was also not invited. I was also
told when the meeting was on...but before I could finish and go, I saw the
announcement been made," he explained. "There was no consensus because the
definition of consensus is that everybody must agree and there is no voting in
consensus." Odinga,
addressing the media on March 31 this year, said all 7 aspirants
had engaged in long consultations with each other and arrived at the decision to back Wanga’s bid. "There are those aspirants who have been
running for the governorship position in Homa Bay County. They have been having
a meeting and invited us as party officials to come and have consultations with
them. They’ve had very extensive consultations, at the end of which an
agreement has been reached by way of consensus," he said then.  “Out
of the seven contestants who were here, they’ve all agreed to step down and
back Gladys Wanga as the party candidate in the Homa Bay County gubernatorial
race. In the same spirit, they’ve also nominated her running mate as Oyugi
Magwanga.”