Roots Party presidential aspirant Prof. George
Wajackoyah has announced that he will launch his manifesto next month as he
continues to drum up support for his bid exactly 60 days to the August polls. Wajackoyah's
announcement comes after he was on Thursday last week cleared by the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to contest for the presidency. The
presidential candidate is now one of four presidential who have been cleared by
IEBC to vie for the country's top seat, among them Raila Odinga (Azimio), Deputy
President William Ruto (UDA) and Agano Party leader David Mwaure Waihiga. Speaking
on the JKLive show on Wednesday, Wajackoyah underlined that he will unveil a
12-point agenda manifesto to the Kenyan public on July 2, 2022. "We
will launch then and we will let Kenyans know our vision for the country,"
Wajackoyah said on the show. Wajackoyah
likewise dismissed the latest opinion poll results by Infotrak indicating that Odinga
holds a slight advantage over his perceived main rival, DP Ruto, just two months
to the polls. According
to the survey, 42 per cent of Kenyans would vote for Odinga if the polls were
to be held today while 38 per cent would back DP Ruto. The remaining 20 per cent
of Kenyans are still undecided, according to Infotrak. Wajackoyah
went on to insinuate that the survey was biased and flawed since it did not
capture any data on himself and fellow presidential candidate David Waihiga
despite having been cleared by IEBC after fulfilling all the requirements. This,
he opines, shows that there are some people who would readily vote for him if
the elections were held impromptu; as such he is not convinced that the
remaining 20 per cent of Kenyan voters are all undecided as implied by the
Infotrak survey. "They
(Infotrak) are notoriously known to be side-takers and on this one I will
agree with DP Ruto who rubbished the report earlier today. They are a living
entity which should not be seen taking sides," he said.  "I
don't like that company and when I become the president should I  find out
that it has violated the Constitution of Kenya by not doing what Kenyans want I
will send them packing."