The name of Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja
has been on everyone's lips in recent times, with the legislator who is eyeing the
city’s gubernatorial seat at the August polls currently knee deep in troubles following
the Commission for University Education's (CUE) decision to rescind
recognition of his degree, in a move that has left the fate of his
governorship bid up in limbo. Despite the aforesaid setback and increased
calls to drop out of the race, the suave and charismatic Sakaja remains on
paper, the biggest obstacle to Jubilee Party candidate Polycarp Igathe's
prospects of occupying City Hall's corner office come August. But just who exactly is this man who has been
a trending topic for over a week now? Born on February 2, 1985 in Nairobi, Sakaja
laid the foundation of his political career when he joined Lenana School in
1999 after finishing his primary education at Aga Khan Nursery and Primary
School a year earlier. His leadership qualities emerged during his stint at the national school where he was designated the
prefects' coordinator and Vice Chair of the institution's law club. Sometime after finishing his secondary
education, Sakaja enrolled for a Bachelor of Arts degree in Actuarial Science
at the University of Nairobi (UON) where he was soon after named Vice Chair of
the Actuarial Students Association. He would later clinch one of the most coveted
positions at the institution when he was convincingly
elected as the Chairman of the now defunct Students’ Organisation of Nairobi
University (SONU), reaffirming his status as a rising political star. Though quite popular among his peers, Sakaja
was still not a household name in Kenyan politics. This would however change in
2005 when he used his position as SONU
boss to rally university students behind the referendum. In 2007, Sakaja would also drum up support
for then President the late Mwai Kibaki's re-election bid; starting out as a
youth mobiliser before being named the director of the ‘Vijana na Kibaki’ lobby
group. Following contentious results in the said
elections, violence and looting erupted in different parts of Kenya with Sakaja
publicly imploring his then boss Kibaki and opposition leader Raila Odinga to
find an amicable solution to the conflict that would put a stop to the
bloodshed. During this period, Sakaja was notably given
the podium to address Kibaki's Cabinet at the time on the same. He was just
22-years-old but he took his opportunity when he rubbed shoulders with some of
Kenya's most powerful individuals then, in particular Minister for Local
Government and now President, Uhuru Kenyatta. After exchanging pleasantries, President
Kenyatta took a liking to the promising Sakaja who went on to help Kibaki's
administration in hashing out important details pertaining to the formation of
the 2010 Constitution and specifically in defining the boundaries of
constituencies. At 26, Sakaja was instrumental in the
formation of The National Alliance (TNA), which President Kenyatta used as his
foundation when forming the Jubilee Party, whose ticket he used to get into
State House during the 2012 presidential race. Sakaja was named TNA's chairperson at the
time, becoming one of the youngest political heads in the country in the
process. When President Kenyatta ascended to power,
the ruling Jubilee Party, in 2013, nominated Sakaja into the 11th Parliament
where he successfully sponsored into law the Public Procurement and Disposal
(Amendment) Bill and the National Employment Authority Bill. He was likewise given a seat at the National
Assembly's joint Committee on National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity, which he
would later chair. Sakaja's extensive legislative endeavours,
between 2013 and 2017, saw him awarded the Chief of the Order of the Burning
Spear (CBS) First Class by President Kenyatta. In 2017, Sakaja, after much deliberation,
announced that he would be contesting for Nairobi's Senator seat despite
initially eyeing the county's governor position. Under a Jubilee ticket, Sakaja overwhelmingly
trounced his closest competitor, ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna, at the
subsequent polls garnering 52 per cent of all votes while Sifuna managed 42 per
cent. He would occupy the seat for the next four
years before exiting Jubilee and later announcing in November 2021 that he
would be contesting for Nairobi's governor seat under a United Democratic
Alliance (UDA) party ticket.  Only time will tell if the ambitious Senator
will realise his dream to lead Nairobi County as its governor in future,
despite his present troubles. Legal experts recently told Citizen Digital that CUE’s decision
to revoke recognition of Sakaja’s university degree may be final and binding. Top
city lawyers Steve Ogolla and Danstan Omari dismissed Sakaja’s claim of a
political witchhunt in the degree saga, maintaining that the obligation is on him
to prove that indeed the degree he holds is valid. According
to Ogolla, CUE might have either been misled into earlier clearing Sakaja or
there was collusion, which he says will be a subject for determination in the
investigations by CUE. “If
new information has been placed in the hands of CUE indicating that Sakaja may
have been cleared irregularly it is within CUE's power to revoke the prior
recognition of the degree. IEBC does not authenticate degrees… In Sakaja's
instance, somebody must have misled CUE. Whether there was collusion between an
official at CUE and Sakaja, to have the commission irregularly validate his
degree will be the outcome of investigations,” Ogolla said. On
his part, lawyer Omari said the “game is over” for Sakaja and that he should
not “waste time” seeking legal redress if indeed he has a valid degree. “CUE
is the only legitimate entity in this country where any foreign university is
taken for accreditation, grading and for being accepted as a degree known in
this country. It has spoken loud and clear that Sakaja is not qualified or the
paper he presented is not a degree for the purpose of the Kenyan market. That
is closure and the court cannot overrule the national accredited entity to do
that job,” said Omari.  “Sakaja
can only challenge the CUE decision if he has a degree. Any foreign degree must
be confirmed by CUE and CUE has confirmed that he does not have it. If Sakaja
had a degree he would have just presented it and the matter ends. Any legal
avenue available for Sakaja is a waste of time,” he added.