Leaders allied to the Kenya Kwanza coalition have lashed out at President Uhuru Kenyatta for failing to recognize his deputy William
Ruto during Wednesday's
Madaraka Day Celebrations. The leaders allied to the Deputy President accused the Head of State of
undermining his deputy publicly during a State function in what some have
termed as a violation of State protocol. During the 59th Madaraka Day celebrations held at Uhuru Gardens in
Nairobi, after the
military showcase, general entertainment and state investiture were
done, the president took over proceedings to deliver his speech contrary to the norm where the DP
addresses the citizens before inviting his boss. The move has sparked mixed reactions with leaders allied to the DP
coming out guns-blazing to condemn the incident. Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri termed the incident as historical and one that
had never been witnessed in the country before, adding that it was divisive to the
country. “Siku ya leo ya Madaraka Day, Rais ameipindua kuwa ‘Madharau’ Day.
Kiburi, chuki imepita kiasi yake; rais wetu remember you have one heart. The
behaviour you are doing now is scaring Kenyans,” Ngunjiri said in a video
message. "Madharau umefanya siku ya leo haijafanyika kutoka independence,
wakati wa baba yako haijafanyika… There is a God in heaven, ile madharau umefanyia deputy president wako na bibi yake
mbele ya wananchi wa Kenya..." Speaking in Kikuyu, Kiambu County where the Kenya Kwanza outfit had gone
to watch a local football match, the leaders tore apart the president alleging
that the contempt shown to their principal was reflected to all Kenyans. Ford
Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula on his part censured the move by
President Kenyatta as he compared him (Uhuru) with the event’s Chief Guest the President of Sierra Leone Julius Maada Bio who in his opening remarks
acknowledged deputy president William Ruto. Wetangula expressed his dissension saying the president’s actions
painted a bad image of the country’s leadership to the visitors. “Katika muhula wake kama rais, pale Uhuru Gardens, you turned a hallowed
national day into an Azimio campaign tool. It is amazing Mr President, that
your guest the president of Sierra Leon could acknowledge the presence of your
deputy president but you yourself couldn’t,” Wetangula said. “It is a terrible shame, a blot to the integrity and the image of our
country that a visitor from West Africa knows that Kenya has a deputy president
but the president of Kenya does not know he has a deputy president." Kiharu legislator
Ndindi Nyoro weighed in to reiterate the disrespect saying that it would be the final event where DP Ruto had been
sidelined. He exuded
confidence assuring the public that the August polls, would usher in a new government where the interests of Kenyans would be upheld. “Deputy President tumeona ile madharau umefanyiwa pale siku ya leo.
Tunataka tueleze wale wamefanya hio madharau ya kupangua protocol ya mipango ya
kiserikali kama Madaraka Day, leo ni siku yenu ya mwisho ya kufanyia mahustler
na Wakenya  =madharau,” Nyoro stated. He added: "Ata kama rais wetu wa tano hajapewa nafasi aongee pale
siku ya leo, wewe unapewa nafasi ya kuongoza wakenya wote from the August 9th…
Kaeni na hiyo madharu yenu huko, Wakenya wamejipanga wachague Ruto kama rais wetu
wa tano."  