Former NACADA boss John Mututho has faulted
Roots Party presidential candidate Prof. George Wajackoyah over his marijuana
legalization agenda. Mututho says Wajackoyah is misinforming the
public and deserves to be arrested for alluding that the legalization of bhang,
which is a narcotic drug, is the solution to revamping the country’s economy
and settling the ballooning debt. Addressing the press on Tuesday, the former Naivasha
MP said marijuana, popularly known as bhang, has dreadful effects and cannot boost
the economy. “To understand the physiology of the chemical
reaction of bhang into your system, how you behave is a focus drug; if you
think of having ugali, you can have three kilograms,” said the Nakuru Senator aspirant. “Mtu wa bangi is focused…it is very
dangerous. The DCI, as a straightforward person, do your job... If Wajackoyah
is having that stuff, as prescribed by the Act, lock him and call us as a witness.” While referring to countries which have
already legalised hemp, Mututho went on to point out that Wajackoyah’s idea was
fallacious since some of those States are suffering economically. “Let him state in a language that everybody
can understand; I am disputing his wisdom in advocating that cannabis can
revamp the Kenyan economy to become a super world,” he said. “How comes a province in Ethiopia where bhang
is legalized is still suffering? How comes Jamaica is not a superpower with all
that cannabis?” In the same regard, Mututho dismissed the
Roots Party leader who has gained significant popularity for his marijuana
agenda saying even if Wajackoyah was to clinch the presidency, he would be at
the forefront of pushing for his impeachment. “This presidential person should pray that I
become a Senator so that I can impeach him for misrepresenting himself and
giving a wrong indicator that this economy would be revamped with a narcotic
substance,” Mututho stated. “I have a rehabilitation centre in Nakuru
called John Mututho Empowerment Centre which so far has treated 4,000 people. I
can tell you we have a very big problem…we can’t allow this discussion to go on
that way.”  Prof. Wajackoyah’s controversial economic
revamp agenda by legalizing bhang has attracted both applause and criticism
across the political divides.