Machakos ... a scenic rural
county of undulating hills; on one hand untold stories of abject poverty; on
the other hand, the lingering potential that comes with a metropolis linked to
Nairobi, teeming with the concentration of housing and factories. The 2022 poll has attracted
an unprecedented number of strong candidates for gubernatorial positions. Our spotlight is on Machakos
County, and here, the governor’s seat has attracted five candidates. A battery of Machakos
governor hopefuls have lined up to succeed governor Alfred Mutua who is serving
his second and final term in office. Nzioka Waita resigned his job
as state house chief of staff, to try his hand at politics. “I'd like to do this Job because I've been in
the field of development now for the last seven years helping the national
government to plan and execute development projects across the country,” Waita
tells Citizen TV. Former Machakos senator
Johnson Muthama and UDA chair is also in the race after declining to defend his
senate seat in 2017. “Machakos people want to elect a governor who
will serve them...they know my performance as mp they know my performance as
senator they have my track record,” Muthama says. Former CAS in the transport
& infrastructure ministry Wavinya Ndeti is no stranger to Machakos
politics. She lists her career in plum
government jobs as testimony that she is cut out for the job. “I've been an MP for Kathiani
and when I was MP for Kathiani and Mavoko now I became number one on
utilisation of tax payers money...I was also assistant minister in youth
affairs and sports...I was also in charge of NYS,” Wavinya tables her
qualifications for the top seat. Deputy Governor Francis
Maliti is among those vying to succeed his boss, Governor Alfred Mutua. He believes his 31-years in
the Public Service is the silver bullet for Machakos problems. “My long service of 9 years
in Machakos County has made me interact with the people of Machakos. I have an
extensive experience in public service for 31 years I Rose to become director
vision 2030 I will bring that experience to Machakos County. Hii kazi ni kujituma
you are not going to be elected and sit in the office like a big boss,” he
says. The fifth candidate is Rose
Mulwa of the Empowerment and Liberation Party (ELP, who says her instinct as a
mother will come in handy in delivery of service to all, equally. “I'm the best candidate
because I am approachable, accountable, responsible...being a woman I believe
women are very merciful when she gives birth whether to a thief or a prostitute
she distributes food equally,” she says. A decade after the 2010 Kenyan
constitution devolved responsibility for water supply and sanitation services
to the county level access to water remains a major challenge in Machakos
county. “No wonder the spread of COVID-19 was so high
in Machakos. Imagine no water in hospitals no water in markets,” Mulwa adds With no water the county
logically then grapples with food insecurity. One of the candidates whose
manifesto is heavy on providing water for the residents of the county is
Wavinya Ndeti. “Water is key for me. It is
key why with water people are able to get good health by feeding well. I want
to provide clean water and also fix the problem of the sewer system which is
being directed to the rivers people are drinking dirty water,” Wavinya says. “We need to provide dams in
every sub-county and treatment plants. We have to be careful with drilling
boreholes to ensure water tables don't go low.,” Elsewhere Muthama has a
different trick up his sleeves in ensuring that residents of Machakos access
clean water. Cleaning up River Athi and
making its waters safe is among the proposals in his Manifesto. “We have a natural resource
which is Athi River yet we have allowed Nairobi County to dump waste there I
want Athi River to be cleaned out of pollution and that water to be made
useful,” Muthama says. Ten years of devolution have
been a mixed bag for Machakos. And yet Machakos governor
Alfred Mutua’s deputy governor Francis Maliti says he will build on his boss's
legacy if he wins in August. “We need to look at sectors
which will make other sectors grow our economy is Agro-based every other Kenyan
will tell you I do farming we have comparative advantage of land mass stand
human resource we have not harnessed that into a policy regime that serves as
an incentive to investors to come invest,” Maliti says. All five candidates promise
to offer solutions to perennial issues; Healthcare being a key priority. All the candidates promise to
revolutionise the healthcare in the county which they deem deplorable. Rose Mulwa says the situation
is so bad patients in Masinga sometime go to Muranga, Kiambu or Kitui for
health services. One of the issue that
beleaguers the healthcare system in the county, she says is the scarcity of
medicine or even basic gloves in most hospitals within the county. According to Waita, the
Healthcare system in the county needs a shot in the arm, he cites the recent
strike at Kangundo Level 5 hospital, where staffers protested the delay of
their salaries for over eight months by county. He wonders how that happens
yet the county has the resources to settle the workers’ wages. The county’s agricultural
production is dominated by cereals with dwindling yields. As such Machakos
remains a food insecure county. According to Waita, Machakos,
Matungulu and Kathiani are all ripe for coffee, and part of his plan is to
revive the coffee sector within the county. Machakos, Matungulu, Kathiani
this is coffee country. Thousands of acres have coffee just neglected we've
seen a revival in Central Kenya we need to bring the learnings from there
here,” Waita says. On the other hand, Wavinya
plans to revive fruit farming in the county, and to prioritise value addition,
such as production of fruit jam. Mulwa on the other hand says
her government will buy farm produce from farmers for storage in silos to
ensure food security.  Come august 9th the people of
Machakos county will decide which way Machakos?