Siaya County Senator, James Orengo, has begun pushing for
the enactment of widows’ charter into the County laws and lobby legislators to
make it a national law. If passed into law, it will protect widows against harmful
practices like cleansing, Inheritance, physical assault and property
disinheritance that remain key challenges facing widows in the County. “Women rights require that we treat women with dignity and
the people who needs dignity most are widows because many times their rights
are being violated in the homes and within communities. We must make sure that
when the husband dies, the widow be in charge of the family and all the
property. I think we can make the law better,” said Orengo on Thursday, June 23
which mark International Widows’ Day. The Charter developed by Rona Foundation incorporating views
of over 8,000 widows from six Siaya Sub County was submitted to Siaya County
Assembly in May 2021. It calls on the County Government to adapt into law and
implement the widows charter to legislate a Widow’s Protection Bill- that will
make the violation of Widows rights unlawful “Part of the law of Siaya County in the next County
Assembly, will be the widows’ charter and am challenging Otiende Amollo and
other national assembly legislators to make it a national law as their first
duty in the next parliament,” said Orengo. The charter also calls for establishment of the Office of
Widowed Persons within the department of Gender & social protection to
address policies, strategies, and implementation mechanisms including
frameworks and formulated schemes to enable widows access resources and support
on priority to attain UN Sustainable Development Goals, more specifically Goal
No. 5. Come Together Widows and Orphans Organization (CTWOO)
Founder, Dianah Kamande said pursuing justice has been a major challenge to
widows especially those who are already victims of gender-based-violence since
it requires a lot of money for the justice process, which they lack. “Poverty has made it hard for them to afford lawyers hence
the lack of representation also results to difficulties in the pursuit for
justice where they end up not getting justice at all,” she said. CTWOO is a non-profit Non-Governmental Organization (NGO)
that creates a safe space where widows and survivors of gender-based violence
can share their experiences and ideas. It has nationwide network working with
over 1 million widows in all the 47 counties Orengo spoke when he officiated commemoration of
International Widows Day 2022 whose theme is ‘Dignity –
Economic Empowerment and Social Justice for Widows’ in recognition of the
extricable link between economic empowerment, poverty and social justice for
dignity of all widows. During the event, a Ksh.30 Million kitty was unveiled to
spur growth of small businesses run by widows and enable them to venture into
new income-generating activities. The funds pooled from Women Enterprise Fund, Uwezo Fund,
Youth Fund and National government affirmative fund will support among other
initiatives, like fish caging, poultry farming and table banking. Siaya County Woman Representative, Dr. Christine Ombaka
said, “Widows have a history of working hard to improve the well-being of
families and children. That is why government has set aside funds to boost your
businesses and strengthen your socio-economic initiatives.” Rarieda Member of Parliament, Otiende Amollo, said if
Azimio-One Kenya Alliance forms the next government, widows- ranked among the
most vulnerable, will be the first beneficiaries of Ksh.6,000 monthly stipend. “What you may not have known is that in the order of
listing, that will be done in conjunction with county commissioners, we start
with the most vulnerable, and the most vulnerable are the widows,” said Amollo. The 2019 Census confirmed that there are over 1 million
widows living in Kenya and the number is expected to be on the rise due to
challenges such as the Covid-19 and increasing incidences of accidents.  