 Wanjigi, through a letter to the tribunal, wants his lawyers to put IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati in the dock and question his move to strike him off the presidential candidates' list. The letter written by his lawyers Osiemo Wanyonyi & CO. Advocates, reads in part; "We refer to the above matter which is coming up for hearing on 16th June, 2022. We wish to cross-examine the chairman, Mr. Wafula Chebukati on the said date for hearing. Please make arrangements for his attendance and appearance for purposes of cross-examination." But in a quick rejoinder, the IEBC rubbished the request, noting it does not have a framework for cross-examination. Wanjigi has accused Chebukati of greatly disadvantaging him and his campaign after he failed to clear him to run in the August elections. According to Wanjigi, the manner in which he was struck off the presidential candidate's list is suspicious, noting another aspirant, Walter Mong'are had been cleared with similar academic qualifications as his. His raising of the concerns caught the IEBC attention leading to their move to cancel Mong'are's certificate. Wanjigi's running mate lawyer Willis Otieno says the cross-examination would be done in line with the Rule 17 of the Elections Dispute Resolutions Rules. Rule 17 of the Elections Dispute Resolutions Rules stipulates: "A person who is a subject of the complaint or objection shall have the right to present his or her evidence and to cross examine any witnesses against him or her. "We need to understand what games the commission's chairman Wafula Chebukati is playing and that is why we demand a cross-examination... There is a clear guideline on admission of persons with academic transcripts as adjudicated by the courts in 2013 in the Joho case which the IEBC was an interested party, yet they want to depart from their own law. How?" poses Willis Otieno Wanjigi has claimed bias in his case's treatment noting it has all the hallmarks of a system designed to lock him out of the presidential race.