A family in Mukimbi village, Embu County, is seeking
justice after their kin was beaten to death for failing to foot a Ksh.3,000
bill accumulated during a drinking spree. The deceased, 25-year-old Tom Musyoki, is
said to have met his demise at a bar in Kangaru market on Monday night. The deceased’s mother, Jecinta Matheka, said
she was called at around 11pm on the aforementioned date and informed that her
son was receiving a beating at the bar. Matheka intimated that upon arriving, she
pleaded with bartenders who were beating Musyoki and his two friends to release them,
promising to raise the bill. She stated that even after paying Ksh.2,000 of
the bill, the bartenders still continued beating the boys demanding for the Ksh.1,000
balance. "Nikawaambia mimi ndio mama mtoto,
wasimchape tena. Sababu elfu mbili imelipwa, si mngojee hiyo ingine tulipe
muachane nao? They didn't listen to me, they threw me outside and demanded I
clear the debt," she stated. “My neighbour came immediately and gave them
Ksh.1,000 and told them to release the young men but they refused and continued
to beat them. The neighbours had to intervene and take them out by force. We
clothed them because they were been beaten without clothes.” Ms. Matheka explained that they then rushed
the boys to the Kerugoya hospital in Kirinyaga County since Embu health
facilities were not working following an ongoing strike. “We took them to hospital but when we were
continuing with the process of admission, he died just as he was been
processed,” Ms. Matheka said. The family is seeking justice saying Musyoki
and his friends should have been taken to the nearby Kangaru Police Station
instead of being subjected to such ruthless beating. Grace Ngaracu, a fellow area resident, noted
that the incident was a reminder of a similar experience which claimed her
son’s life two years ago.  Ms. Ngaracu said such incidents have been
rampant in the area where bar owners resort to beating up young men who do not
pay their bills rather than following due course of the law. 