Kenya
Kwanza presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua has dismissed reports of his alleged
involvement in the hotly-contested Kiambu County gubernatorial seat. The race has attracted some of the region’s perceived
political bigwigs and Kenya Kwanza-allied leaders among them former Governor William Kabogo (Tujibebe Wakenya
Party), Senator Kimani Wamatangi (United Democratic Alliance - UDA), and Gatundu
South MP Moses Kuria (Chama Cha Kazi - CCK). Gachagua says that contrary to allegations that
UDA is leaning in favour of its candidate, Senator Wamatangi, against the
other aspirants in Kenya Kwanza, the Deputy President William Ruto-led camp has allowed voters to make their own
decisions freely among the three. “UDA is an autonomous party. Naturally, we
campaign for our candidates. But when we go to a place like Kiambu where there
is a fair contest among the Kenya Kwanza candidates, we allow the people to
make their own decision,” Gachagua told the Nation in an interview. The Mathira MP also rubbished recent claims by
Kabogo and Kuria who accused him of
being a dictator in the alliance, adding that the latter is in fact a very
close friend of his. He intimated that Kabogo’s grievances, which
led to him declaring he was moving away from Kenya Kwanza, hailed from the
governorship race in which he (Gachagua) is not even interested since he is now
a national leader. “Kuria and I are friends. He visits my home
frequently. We share the same ideals and he has never expressed any misgivings
about my leadership. I don’t want to dwell on Kabogo as that is a Kiambu
matter, I am a national leader,” he said. “The discomfort expressed by Kabogo has
everything to do with Kiambu where he, Kuria and Senator Kimani Wamatangi want
to be governor. I cannot help any of them because I am not a Kiambu voter; I'm a
father figure to the three.” The lawmaker similarly told off the Tujibebe Wakenya
party boss over claims of favouring UDA candidates during Kenya Kwanza rallies
and sidelining those from other relatively smaller affiliate parties. “I can only advise my friend Kabogo to take
his battles where they belong. I have no favourite candidate in Kiambu. I have
no influence there as far as the governor's seat is concerned. I am busy with
the presidential campaigns,” said Gachagua.  “Kabogo was probably uncomfortable with my
being firm. He came to the meeting with his sound system and was interrupting
others. I told him that was not allowed. It was my meeting and there had to be
an order.