Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu is of the
opinion that Deputy President William Ruto’s perceived voter basket in his
so-called strongholds is dwindling following the emergence of Roots Party
presidential candidate Prof. George Wajackoyah. While drumming up support for his
presidential bid across the country, DP Ruto has been tugging at the heart of
Kenyans, specifically the youth, with the promise that his administration will
ensure that they are represented in political institutions, processes, and
decision-making and given jobs as well. According to the DP, it is important to
have young people engaged in formal political processes so that they can
have a say in determining Kenya’s future. Prof. Wajackoyah, on the other hand, has
surprisingly and effortlessly become somewhat of an overnight sensation after
endearing himself to youth on the promise that he will legalise marijuana
should he occupy the house on the hill after the August General Election. In a Twitter post on Saturday, Ngilu claimed
that DP Ruto is now ceding ground in areas such as Mt. Kenya despite allegedly
making headways in the region much earlier than other presidential candidates. “It’s not so much the Azimio surge and
consolidation of key bases. It’s also the rapid momentum with which Kenya
Kwanza are ceding ground they previously comfortably occupied like Mt Kenya,”
Ngilu said. “Even Wajackoya is now threatening their
assumed key demographic of 18-30 and partakers of marijuana.” According to a recently released poll by
Infotrak, Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party frontman Raila Odinga is
leading in popularity at 42 per cent, followed by Kenya Kwanza’s DP Ruto at 38
per cent. The survey showed that if elections were
held today, Odinga and his running mate Martha Karua would garner 9.3
million votes, while Ruto and his running mate Rigathi Gachagua would
secure 8.4 million; 4 million voters have yet to settle on their preferred
presidential candidate. Apart from legalizing and commercializing
marijuana, Prof. Wajackoyah also said he plans to cash in on the lucrative
anti-venom market by farming poisonous snakes and extracting toxins from them
that will enable the country to locally manufacture antidotes for export. The Roots party candidate is expected to
unveil his much anticipated 12 point agenda manifesto on July 2, 2022.