The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has written to the IEBC advising that it pays attention to the application of 241 aspirants for various seats before clearing them to contest
in the upcoming general election. EACC has listed several sitting governors and former senior state
officials seeking governorship positions, most of them with pending court
cases touching on corruption. Several aspirants have been flagged for what the commission suspects may
not have procedurally resigned as per the law by the 9th of February this year. EACC has listed two presidential aspirants,
a running mate, 61 governorship and deputy governor aspirants and six
senatorial aspirants. 19 woman representative aspirants have been flagged
alongside 58 constituency MP aspirants and 94 MCA aspirants. At the presidential tickets, Justus Juma of the Justice and freedom
party has been flagged on account of submitting an identity card whose details
belong to someone else, a lady. Juma’s application was already rejected by IEBC
last Sunday. Murang’a governor Mwangi Wa
Iria who has been on a warpath with IEBC after the commission denied him a date
for lacking sufficient endorsement signatures has more trouble. EACC says it
has been investigating Wa Iria for obstructing their officials in investigating
him, and that he has a pending asset recovery case on suspected proceeds of
crime. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru
is wanted by the EACC for her two pending matters including the irregular
payment of imprest that was subject to her impeachment proceedings in 2020. EACC has been waiting on the Director of Public Prosecutions
to charge Waiguru. Former Nyandarua Governor
Daniel Waithaka who seeks a
return has a pending case at the anti-corruption
court. So does former Nairobi Governor
Evans Kidero, who is bidding for the Homa Bay seat. Garissa Governor Ali Korane is yet to resolve corruption charges in
which he is alleged to have been involved in the embezzlement of 233 million
shillings of public funds in his county. Tana River Governor Dhadho Ghodana has been on EACC’s radar for years
now, with the commission waiting on DPP to proceed to charge him in court. Perhaps the biggest threat is to Mike Sonko who was impeached as Nairobi
governor back in December 2020 and unsuccessfully challenged it in court. EACC
details that a case against him on economic crimes make him questionable to run
for Mombasa governorship. Another governor with pending corruption charges is Muthomi Njuki who
was barred from accessing his office in 2020. He was charged with abuse of
office and released on bail. Other governorship aspirants flagged by EACC are Chris Obure of Kisii, Fahim Twaha who is
defending the Lamu seat, and Mohamud Ali Mohamed of Marsabit for alleged
irregular recruitment of the county public service board. EACC has listed 42 governor aspirants across different counties who are
suspected of having missed the resignation deadline from public office of 9th
of February. EACC says some of them remained on government payrolls despite
physically leaving office. EACC is probing former petroleum and mining CS John
Munyes who is eyeing Turkana governorship. At the senatorial races, the six affected include; Karungo Thangwa of Kiambu. He was removed
from office when he served as a member of the county executive, with EACC
holding that he should not hold any other state or public office. Migori governor Okoth Obado hopes to be elected to the senate despite
his two pending corruption related cases, including an asset recovery related
one. Former Youth Affairs principal secretary
Lilian Omollo hopes to be senator of Embu. She has pending cases in court in
relation to a Ksh.467 million scam at
the National Youth Service. She had some
of her bank accounts frozen in a bid to secure cash suspected to be proceeds of
crime. Others are Richard Onyonka of Kisii, Benjamin Kai of Kilifi and Danson
Mungatana of Tana River. At the National Assembly, some of the 58 flagged aspirants are
Oscar Sudi, John Waluke who was convicted in an NCPB corruption case but
appealed. Samuel Arama of Nakuru, Governor Sospeter Ojaamong of Busia, Didmus
Barasa of Kimilili, Jimmy Angwenyi
of Kitutu Chache North
and Governor Alfred Mutua who presented his name for the Mwala seat, all of
them with pending investigations or cases. EACC now wants IEBC to take appropriate action on the aspirants saying,
“EACC considers these persons to have fallen short of the moral and ethical
standards stipulated for election to public office.”  IEBC wrote to different state agencies for advisory on the more than 21,000 aspirants in
various elective seats.