The head of Deputy President William Ruto's
presidential campaign, Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, has rubbished reports
alleging that the Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate is using public funds to
finance his campaigns across the country. His sentiments come after the Azimio la Umoja
One Kenya coalition party purportedly penned a letter to the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) questioning the source of DP Ruto's
campaign funds. The letter was preceded by Azimio council
Secretary General, MP Junet Mohamed, on Monday accusing DP Ruto of
intentionally using Ksh.46 million in public resources on the campaign trail. According to the Suna East MP, DP Ruto
allegedly spent Ksh.23 million in the fiscal year 2022/23 on catering and
refreshment services. Speaking on Citizen TV's NewsNight show on
Tuesday, Nanok insisted that the Public Service Act binds all civil servants
from misusing public resources while in office and that DP Ruto was not an
exception. According to Nanok, DP Ruto relies on
donations from his party members and a handful of wealthy
well-wishers to fund his presidential campaigns. "I want to state that DP Ruto has not
been using State resources. The Kenya Kwanza candidate has been supported by
party members and well-wishers," said Nanok. Nanok went on to insinuate that Azimio only
wrote to IEBC as retaliation because the Kenya Kwanza alliance had written a
letter to the elections authority blaming the Raila Odinga-led outfit for
violence that marred a political rally in Jacaranda grounds on Sunday. The mayhem on Sunday culminated in
police officers sealing off the venue after arguments between the Kenya Kwanza
and Azimio political outfits erupted over a double booking of the
premises. The Turkana Governor went on to say that
Kenya Kwanza was still awaiting an apology from Azimio over the same. "I think they are raising those claims
because of the violence at Jacaranda which they have not apologised on and it
is still the area that we want the Azimio candidate to apologise because there
has been violence against the Kenya Kwanza politicians and candidates but we
have not gotten the apology," he said. Nanok correspondingly stated that efforts to
have law enforcement agencies address the grievances have fallen on deaf ears
despite Kenya Kwanza reportedly writing to President Uhuru Kenyatta himself.  "We have written a letter to IEBC
putting forward our complaint over Jacaranda. We wrote a letter previously on
what happened in Nyanza when DP Ruto toured the region a while back and we have
also written a letter to President Kenyatta,” said Nanok.