Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has cried foul
after the Commission for University Education (CUE) ordered him to submit a fresh
list of requirements in order to be cleared to contest in the upcoming August
polls. This comes after CUE on Friday ordered the
Nairobi governor aspirant to submit at least 10 documents as confirmation that
he attended and graduated from Uganda’s Team University as he claims. Some of the documents required from Sakaja
include: an application letter for the course he took at the university, his
letter of admission, evidence of registration, official transcripts,
examination schedules and a graduation booklet with his name on it among other requirements. Speaking at a press conference on Friday,
Sakaja slammed CUE over the new conditions alleging discrimination as he said no
other candidate cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission
(IEBC) was asked to submit the exact academic qualifications as him. According to Sakaja, the commission erred in
revoking his university degree without completing necessary investigations into
the matter, a move the Nairobi Senator insists is politically motivated. "The question we are asking is, in this
country are you guilty until proven innocent or vice versa? You cannot revoke
and then investigate, you investigate and then if you need to, you revoke. When
I submitted my documents on June 6, 2022 none of those questions were asked of
me but today there are requirements," said Sakaja. "Can CUE ask each and every other
candidate who has been cleared to provide the same? There is no set of law for
Sakaja and another set of law for the rest of Kenyans. There cannot be two set
of rules in this country. If you demand that from me, demand that from all
other candidates." To further drive his point home, Sakaja
questioned why CUE chairperson Prof. Chacha Nyaigotti revoked his
qualifications without allegedly convening the commission's board for a caucus
on the same. "We also know that before the chair
communicates any decision of CUE there must be a meeting of the commission,
which never happened. I wish you would have asked where the other commissioners
are. There is a quorum of five. That did not take place but we understand the
pressure that he (Nyagotti) is in." While noting that he was ready to submit the
fresh list of requirements, Sakaja slammed CUE for not making the same demands
when he submitted his application to the commission on June 6, 2022. "I am ready to look at and provide what
the they asked for just like I was ready to provide whatever they required on
June 6, 2022," he said. He likewise assured Nairobi residents that
despite the allegations tabled against him, he is optimistic that his name will
be on the ballot come August.  "I want to assure Nairobians and those
pressuring Prof. Chacha that the governor of Nairobi will be elected by
Nairobians. The people of Nairobi have rejected projects and they have rejected
candidates who are forced on them," said the legislator.