The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) has sided with
the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) in its ongoing tiff with
the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) over which of the two agencies
has the constitutional powers to draft charge sheets. LSK President Eric Theuri made the utterances
despite the Court of Appeal on Thursday rescinding an earlier order issued by High
Court Justice Anthony Mrima which granted the said powers to the ODPP. The ruling came at a time when there was
confusion at the lower courts with some suspects arraigned for trial declining
to take plea using charge sheets drawn by the Kenya Police and DCI, insisting
that the ODPP drafts the charges against them as directed by the initial High
Court order. According to Theuri, DCI erred when it
ordered its officers to present charge sheets directly to courts for approval
or rejection following the Thursday ruling, labeling the move as unconstitutional. Theuri went on to say that the ODPP is
mandated by law to uphold justice and prevent the abuse of the legal process,
as such its input in the drafting of charge sheets is integral to Kenya's
judicial system. "Further the directive by the DCI that
its officers must decline to give evidence on charges filed in compliance with
the decision by Mrima J. are in contravention of a valid binding order by the
Court and can only serve to create anarchy and confusion in the criminal
justice system," Theuri said in a statement to newsrooms. "A State organ or officer cannot execute
a mandate not bestowed upon it by the Constitution or Statute. Article 2 of the
Constitution provides that no person may claim or exercise State authority
except as authorized under the Constitution." He likewise added that the ODPP has
constitutional powers to direct the police force to investigate any information
or allegation of criminal conduct. "The DCI is an organ under the National
Police and as such within the provisions of Article 157 (4). Under Section 35
of the National Police Service Act, the DCI maybe required to investigate
possible offences upon directions given to the Inspector General of Police by
the DPP pursuant to Section 157 (4)," said Theuri. "It follows that upon conclusion of such
investigations that the DPP must be informed of its findings for his
concurrence or otherwise." Theuri correspondingly called for a truce
between the ODPP and DCI, noting that their quarrel is impeding judicial
proceedings and threatening gains made in the criminal justice sector. "Equally we call upon the magistrates to
decline the invitation by the DCI to accept or reject charge sheets and not to
take us back to the dark days pre-2010, a history the people of Kenya are
determine to move from,” he stated. While urging the DCI to withdraw
the aforementioned instructions to its officers, the
LSK boss also advised Kenyans to reject charge sheets presented to court
without approval from the ODPP.