Roots Party leader Prof. George Wajackoyah's
running mate Justina Wamae has shed light on how her path came to cross with
that of the controversial presidential aspirant who is eyeing the country’s top
seat at the August polls. Prof.
Wajackoyah and Wamae were on Thursday last week jointly cleared by the
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) in their bid to replace
President Uhuru Kenyatta in the house on the hill. Speaking
on Citizen TV's JKLive show on Wednesday night, Wamae disclosed that she first came
to know of the Roots Party leader by chance after her husband incidentally sent
her a photo of the free-spirited professor. "My
husband Alex sent me a picture of Prof. Wajackoyah; he was wearing Gideon boots
and a T-Shirt on Facebook and that was the first time I learnt of him,"
Wamae said during the interview. After
some time, Wamae would get the opportunity to interact with Wajackoyah on a
personal level after the Roots Party announced that it was welcoming
applications for the running mate position. She
took a gamble and applied for the position, attaching a curriculum vitae she
had crafted in 2018, in her letter of interest, when she was eyeing a
ministerial position. A face-to-face interview was soon after organised by the party. The
outfit, Wamae added, insisted that she avail herself at the interview location
with her husband in tow if she was married. According to her, the interview was
conducted by a panel led by a retired judge. "The
reason behind that was that they would have two votes from my family. After the
interview, the panel instructed us to go back home and wait for the
results," she said. "The
party later called to inform me that I had landed the running mate
slot." Wamae
now says that she is humbled to be on the ballot alongside Wajackoyah, being in
the same ballot paper and competing against a veteran Kenyan politician in the
race to State House. "I'd
like to take this opportunity to thank Wajackoyah and the Roots party.  I
was brought up in Kibera and right now I am on the same ballot paper with one
of the presidential candidates who was the Kibera MP back when I was a young
girl and it is a humbling experience," she stated. Wamae is a 35-year-old businesswoman who has been in the excavation industry and supply of building
materials. She is married and has a three-year old daughter. She graduated from
Daystar University with a Bachelor's degree in 2010 and has a Master's degree
in procurement and logistics from the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and
Technology (JKUAT). Wamae first entered
politics in 2017, when she unsuccessfully contested for the Mavoko Parliamentary seat as an independent candidate, garnering 1,200 votes.