Agano Party presidential candidate David Mwaure Waihiga has
written to the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), the Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Commission (EACC) and the National Police Service (NPS) questioning the source
of funds bankrolling Kenya Kwanza and Azimio la Umoja One Kenya campaigns
across the country. In the letter dated June 23, 2022, Mwaure implored the
aforementioned agencies to open investigations and swiftly identify the source
of the funds which he says could possibly be proceeds of crime. According to the Agano party frontman, it is baffling how campaign
spending in the country has spiked ahead of the August polls at a time when
Kenya's economy is essentially in shambles. As it stands, presidential candidates are mandated by law to not
spend more than Ksh.5.2 billion on campaigns while the ceiling for Governors
and Senators is set at Ksh.433 million. In comparison, Kenya's monthly minimum
wage is Ksh.15,201. "I wish to call on the Commissioner General of KRA, the
Director of EACC and the IG of Police to investigate and find out where all the
billions that have been and are being used by the Kenya Kwanza and Azimio
Coalitions have come from," said Mwaure. "Kenyans need to be told if this is money is from various
scandals that took place when my competitors were in government or whether
this is money from drug barons and interest groups that will later capture
Kenya for payback." He similarly castigated Inspector General of Police Hillary
Mutyambai for allegedly failing to ensure that he is accorded the same security
as other presidential candidates despite writing a letter on the same on
Tuesday. "There are cars, escorts and body guards that I am entitled
to but the office of Inspector General is sitting on them and either making
money out of them or they have given them to those who are State projects or
can pay them," he lamented. "If I do not get all what the others have, I will mention
names and go to court. My presidency will deal with impunity completely." He correspondingly urged Mutyambai to ensure that two police
officers who have been assigned to guard him are given a day off to rest after
they allegedly worked round the clock for three weeks without any breaks.