The
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has written to Director
of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji to initiate a probe against ODM
leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. This follows a complaint
by Thirdway Alliance Kenya party against the two perceived leading presidential
aspirants over alleged illegal early campaigns and use of public resources. IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati
cited the Ekuru Aukot-led party’s letter to the commission on March 11, 2022
lamenting about the two leading candidates' alleged use of public funds for
their own personal and political agenda. This, the party claimed, was
giving the Azimio la Umoja and Kenya Kwanza frontmen an unfair advantage over
their other opponents in the race to State House. “The Third Way Alliance Party
wrote to the Commission on 11th March, 2022 expressing displeasure at the
manner in which illegal early campaigns have gained currency and the use of
public resources to advance personal and political objectives has become
prevalent,” stated Chebukati “The Party has singled out the
Deputy President Dr. William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga as
having an undue advantage over other aspirants by dint of using of public
resources thus enjoying a competitive edge.” The IEBC boss hence urged DPP
Haji to invoke his duty to investigate and prosecute such manner of offences as
stipulated under the Election Offences Act. “Section 14 of the Election
Offences Act, 2016 outlaws use of public resources for the purpose of
campaigning during an election,” wrote Chebukati in the letter dated March 22,
2022. “In addition, pursuant to Section
21 of the Act, it is the Director of Public Prosecution that has power to order
investigations and to prosecute offences under the Act.” He added: “It is in this premise
that we wish to escalate this complaint to your office to deal since the same
falls under your purview.” Thirdway
Alliance Kenya party leader Aukot on March 11 wrote to Chebukati seeking to
have Odinga and DP Ruto barred from
participating in the August elections. Aukot argued
that the duo had overtly breached IEBC regulations by campaigning all over the
country using public resources prior to the election body’s set commencing date
of May 29, 2022. To further
supplement his case, Aukot highlighted how DP Ruto has been using his official
residence in Karen as a venue to host delegations for his United Democratic
Alliance (UDA) party.