 This comes after the brewing plant was first shut down by the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) in December 2021 after the brewery allegedly failed to remit approximately Ksh.22 million in cumulative taxes accrued since February 2021. Keroche has however maintained that it failed to honour the payments owing to a tough operating environment brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, citing that the brewery could not fully meet all the cash obligations of the company such as paying taxes, utilities, salaries and suppliers as a result. “We have remained closed and yet we have over 2 million litres of beer worth about Ksh.512 million in our tanks which have fixed costs to a tune of about Ksh.30 million,” Keroche said in a statement. “This has drained all our resources and unfortunately if nothing is done in the next seven days, we will be forced to drain down all the beer and lay down over 250 direct employees and thousands within our nationwide distribution network.” Despite entering into a proposed payment plan to clear the arrears with KRA, Keroche claims that the taxman frequently interrupted its efforts to do so by closing the aforementioned factory and allegedly issuing the plant’s closure notice to 36 banks which proceeded to deny credit to the brewery to clear the bill. “We started negotiating for a payment plan and we requested for 24 monthly instalments based on our financial projections which KRA rejected and insisted on six monthly instalments. We proceeded with their proposal although we knew it was unrealistic since we were desperate to take our products in the market during the festive season,” Keroche explained. Keroche likewise said that the taxman reopened the brewery on December 22, 2021 with the brewery managing to sell booze for only three days. It added that it took three days for the beers to reach its national distribution network after the plant was temporarily opened but their tax dues were still demanded by KRA. “We remitted Ksh.10 million which was available in our accounts then; which to them was insufficient. On 10th January 2022 KRA again shut down the factory and we renegotiated the payment plan (24-installment) which they still rejected,” said Keroche. On January 15, 2022, after another round of back and forth discussions, KRA re-opened the plant but Keroche needed revenue stamps which the brewery had to apply for and it took a further one week to get approval and issuance from KRA. Production resumed a week later but even before the products reached the market, KRA allegedly pounced again and closed the plant on January 31, 2021 despite Keroche remitting Ksh.2.5 million to the taxman which the brewery garnered from sales in the period. “At this point, they refused to accept further negotiations and the office of the Commissioner-Domestic Taxes Department, advised us that their hands were tied and we should seek support from the office of the Commissioner- General but we have been unable to reach him for his intervention,” the brewery added. Keroche has since urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene in the matter, which it says will likely lead to loss of income for thousands of Kenyans indirectly involved in the distribution network and loss of 2 million litres of beer, valued at Ksh.512 million, currently lying dormant in the Naivasha plant. “Kindly but urgently request the re-opening of our plant to prevent huge losses as described above and enable us resume production, sales and distribution and most importantly protect and safeguard the livelihoods of thousands of Kenyans employed by the company both directly and indirectly,” the Tabitha Karanja-led company beseeched the Head-of-State. “Also ask KRA to give the company 12 months grace period on the taxes in arrears. However, the company will continue paying the current taxes as they fall due.