 This is according to a survey conducted by Citizen Digital on Tuesday, March 8, 2022 as the world marked International Women’s Day. In the Twitter poll, we asked social media users for their opinion on what, between Gender-Based Violence, Female Genital Mutilation, Menstrual Health and Gender Wage Gap is still holding women back in 2022? Out of 1,544 responses received, a majority of the respondents at 68.9 percent were of the opinion that Gender-Based Violence was the most affecting issue followed by Gender Wage Gap at 12.9 percent. At the same time, 11.9 per cent of the respondents submitted that Menstrual Health was a key issue affecting women and girls while 6.3 percent pointed at Female Genital Mutilation being a pressing concern. Gender-based violence is defined as sexual, physical, mental or economic harm imposed on someone based on their gender, including any form of threats of violence, coercion or manipulation. Gender-based violence continues to plague Kenya with one of the most recent case being an incident where a gang of boda boda riders sexually assaulted a female driver on Wangari Maathai Road in Nairobi. Regional Advocacy Director at the Psycho-Social Support Centre, Angeline Siparo, while speaking on Citizen’s News Night Show on Tuesday said that gender-based violence in not an individual problem but a Kenyan one. “It would be easy to blame these young men and call them hooligans but the one thing we have to remember is that what happened at forest road is actually Kenya. If we end up having an accident people don’t rush to come and save you, they come and steal from you,” Siparo said. According to Siparo, a lot of focus has been given to the girl child, leaving the boy child out of the very important equation. “I am just saying we have spent so much time empowering the girl childwe have really left the boy out. Owing to COVID-19, many people are strained physically, emotionally and financially. They are on the breaking point,” she said. Gender-wage gap is the difference in earning between men and women, where men are paid relatively higher than women in most societies. According to a report by USAID, out of 156 countries, Kenya ranked 95 in the Global Gender Gap Report, 2021. The report further reveals that young women and girls remain the most vulnerable when it comes to poverty which is aggravated by "gender-based violence, harmful cultural attitudes, and beliefs."