Political analysts have come out to fault President Uhuru
Kenyatta’s full-scale indulgence in his succession politics. Professor PLO Lumumba and Communications Adviser Barrack
Muluka say that President Kenyatta's recent announcement that he was set to join
politics ahead of the August Presidential Polls would injure his legacy of the last
nine years as the head of state. Speaking on Citizen TV’s JKLive Show on
Wednesday night, Muluka said that President Kenyatta's recent agreement with Azimio
la Umoja coalition to back ODM leader Raila Odinga was a worrying trend
considering the country's history on succession politics.  “We have a president who risks leaving behind a highly polarized country and who seems to feel happy to be part of the drama.” Muluka went forth to argue that the Head of State was giving signs that he is destined to remain in leadership even after retirement. “President Kenyatta who has been recently been declared the
Jubilee party leader and as the patron of Azimio Coalition… Charity Ngilu
stands before the camera and says M|r. President you are going nowhere and Francis Atwoli
is reminding us that the president is too young to depart office…,” Muluka
noted. He added: “He is the heir of a progressive constitution that
actualizes the dream of succession that you can hold that office, do your bit
and when the time comes, you preside over the elections and hand over to the
next person whether you like them or not.” Lumumba on his part seconded Muluka’s remarks saying that
President Uhuru should instead focus on leaving a legacy during his exit before the 9th of August. “My advice to President Uhuru Kenyatta is that he should
go round the country and visit all the 47 counties and by the time he concludes
his visit we are in the month of June. “Uhuru should retire and join the former president's club led
by the former President Obasanjo and serve in that arena, and Kenya will
remember him fondly,” said Lumumba. At the same time, Prof. Lumumba downplayed the current
leadership in the country as ethnically based, adding that this has ultimately overshadowed ideologies in the political arena.  Lumumba underscored that the two key factions mainly led by DP Ruto and Odinga are solely
focused on tribal-based agendas rather than ideologies that Kenyans are keen on
listening to.