The Wiper Democratic Movement party leader
Kalonzo Musyoka now says his move to back Raila Odinga and form the Azimio-One
Kenya grand coalition was not aimed at acquiring the Deputy President position. Kalonzo stated that the decision to merge
with Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta, the proponents of Azimio la Umoja,
ahead of the August polls was solely meant to safeguard the welfare of the
nation and not about what positions the leaders would get. Speaking in an exclusive interview with
Citizen TV on Friday, the One Kenya Alliance co-principal noted that his “selfless
nature” as a political leader is what drove him to the alliance. “We haven’t even discussed positions; that
will amaze you, have you ever heard of the unconditional love that God gave
us?” Kalonzo posed. In regard to whether he would be okay if not
given the DP position, he said: “I can go home if the country is safe, I’m
telling you. That is selflessness, and that is sacrifice, and I think it is
servant leadership.” The former Vice President however spelt out
that if the Azimio-One Kenya presidential flagbearer Odinga considers him for
the running mate position then he would be privileged to serve the nation. “If my brother, in consultation with other
friends, decides I can deputize him, I will gladly do so because we have a lot
of unfinished business,” he stated. Similarly, Kalonzo stated that if Odinga
ascends to power come August, his eyes would be focused on the 2027
presidential polls, a lesson he says he has learnt from DP William Ruto who hit
the ground running to succeed President Kenyatta soon as they won the 2017 elections. “We have learnt something useful from William
Ruto, after the elections, he was looking ahead. That is why he has been
looking like a front runner. There is nothing wrong with me planning for 2027; I
will be a man on a mission,” Kalonzo stated.  “I think I have sacrificed so much and I
don’t think anyone profiling me will really be a good Kenyan, because you know
the names they have called me.”