Kenyans who have encroached on public and
private land in nine constituencies within Nairobi County now risk being
evicted if the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) effect a directive by the
regional security committee to reclaim the pieces of land. NMS Director General Mohamed Badi, who
appeared before the Senate Devolution Committee on Wednesday to answer queries
on alleged land grabbing in Pumwani and Eastleigh, dismissed reports that his
officers were involved in the eviction and claimed that it was conducted by the
police; a claim that Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai had denied. This comes a month after the committee
launched a probe into alleged illegal evictions of Nairobi City Water and Sewerage
Company staff from the county government housing units in Pumwani to pave way
for a private developer. “It is not NMS that does the actual eviction
as I said it is a multi-agency team…if it is that area then that DC takes
charge of that operation, it is not NMS. NMS is either tasked to provide
transport, to ensure there is traffic flow,” said Badi. The Director General was at pains to explain
how he mobilized the police to demolish structures and evict employees of an
entity that he oversees just because there was a court order issued. “How do you mobilise the police to come and
evict your staff from a property that was put up by the same entity that you
run?” Chairman, Senate Devolution Committee, Moses Kajwang posed. Badi responded: "We would have appealed
if that was brought to my attention because this was brought through a court
order and of course any court order can be appealed.” The NMS boss went forth to state that cartels
had become more vicious in the county and that there were pending evictions
that were approved by the Nairobi regional security committee which oversees
demolitions in the city. Badi similarly underscored the need for
security agencies to deal with multiple land allocations, which empowers land
grabbers who through court orders hinder efforts to correct the mess. "I have seen cases where there have been
five cases allocation to one piece of land, we usually refer them to go to
court and we also present the same to CID for investigations,” explained the
DG. The evictions will affect nine constituencies
including Lang’ata, Embakasi, Mathare, Makadara, Kibra, Kamukunji, Westlands,
Kasarani and Starehe. They target owners of illegal garages,
temporary structures, permanent structures, and illegal containers. The
regional security committee has already effected evictions in some of those
areas.  NMS has also been tasked by the security
committee to remove boda boda operators, street families, parking boys,
beggars, hawkers and gamblers operating from the Nairobi Central Business
District (CBD).