 According to Ruto, Atwoli led other stakeholders in filing a court case to stop the government's monthly deduction regulations, which has stymied the program. “When we came into office, we had 3.8 million people contributing to NHIF. Everybody was contributing Sh320, just like the Sh200 of NSSF.” DP Ruto said. “We decided to adjust so that the people who earn more, can pay more... but we were taken to court by a stupid man called Atwoli, he is a very foolish person,” said the DP. But Atwoli, in a hit back, claimed DP Ruto was angered by his strong stance over the August presidential race. “He calls me names when he is in London, telling the whole world that Atwoli is the most stupid person…It is better to be stupid that to be a thief,” Atwoli said. At the same time, Atwoli went on to say it was disrespectful of DP Ruto to insult him, as he is like a father to him. The COTU secretary general also accused DP Ruto of corruption, while promising to tour all of the countries Ruto visited during his 10-day trip to the United States, the United Kingdom, and Qatar to deconstruct his presidential ambitions. Atwoli claimed that the DP was incapable of combating corruption in the country, claiming that his allies were involved in a number of graft cases. “How can DP Ruto tame corruption when the people around him are thieves? Tell me, who among DP Ruto’s people is sincere and honest about Kenyan issues?” he asked. During an interview with NTV, Atwoli claimed that the DP was anticipating his loss in the presidential election on August 9, which explains his recent claims that the election will be rigged. “He knows he is losing and he is trying to build up a case of justification of denying the outcome of the [August] elections,” said Atwoli in an interview with NTV. Atwoli stated that the DP exuded confidence in the electoral process when he stated that his votes would not be stolen even if ODM Leader Raila Odinga's brother was appointed to head the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). The COTU secretary general was reacting to the DP's comments in the US that some people wanted to impose a presidential candidate on Kenyans. “The international community appeal will not help you, it is how we manage our business as Kenyans,” he continued.        