 Formally known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Chatham House is a London-based policy institute which has been in place since 1920. The think-tank began as a meeting assembled by Lionel Curtis who was an advocate for the scientific study of international affairs in the aftermath of World War I. Named after the building in which it is based, the institute provides a forum for debate and dialogue on key developments in international affairs and policy responses. Chatham House defines its mission simply as “helping governments and societies build a sustainably secure, prosperous and just world.” Apart from debate and conversations, the institute also conducts research around environment and society, global economy and finance, global health security, international law and international security. Chatham House operates on a membership basis, with plans available for corporations, academic institutions, NGOs, and individuals, including students. Membership fees range from £170 (Ksh.26,000) for students to £315 (Ksh.48,000) for a full membership. According to the think tank, a membership gives one ​​access to events with world leaders and experts, networking opportunities, as well as subscriptions to its publications. This includes an eLibrary membership and six print editions of our The World Today magazine and the International Affairs journal which Chatham House publishes. “Expand your network by meeting other members from business, government, NGOs and academia, at member events and through our exclusive LinkedIn group,” the institution says on its website. Additionally, the institute runs an annual award dubbed ‘The Chatham House Prize’, which has been recognizing "the person, persons or organization deemed by members of Chatham House to have made the most significant contribution to the improvement of international relations in the previous year" since 2005. Only two Africans have received the prize: Ghanaian ​​President John Kufuor in 2008 and Malawi Constitutional Court Justices Healey Potani, Ivy Kamanga, Redson Kapindu, Dingiswayo Madise and Michael Tembo in 2020. Notable personalities who have also given addresses at Chatham House include President Uhuru Kenyatta, Nigerian writer Chimamanda Adichie, Gambian President Adama Barrow and World Trade Organization Director-General Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.