The
US on Tuesday rejected a proposal from Poland to send Soviet-era
fighter jets to Ukraine by way of a US-NATO airbase in Germany, but is still
working out how to fulfill Ukraine's urgent request for more fighter planes in
its war with Russia, US officials have told CNN, though a straightforward
solution does not appear imminent. The
US and NATO want to help Ukraine defend itself against Russian
troops invading the country, but also avoid being drawn into an outright
conflict with Russia. Ukrainian
President Volodymyr Zelensky has been asking the West for MiG-29 fighter jets,
which were used during the Cold War and that Ukrainian pilots were trained to
use, to maintain control of the skies in his country as it remains under attack
by Russia. Zelensky's
other request for help establishing a no-fly zone over Ukraine has been
rejected by the US and the alliance, who view it as a move that would pit them
directly against Russia. Russian President Vladimir Putin has also warned that
he would consider countries imposing a no-fly zone "as participants in a
military conflict." With
a no-fly zone off the table, the US has weighed the option of providing support to the Ukrainian
military by helping facilitate the delivery of Polish fighter jets to Ukraine.
But it has proven to be a thorny political issue and logistically complicated
objective. Over the weekend, the US said it was in discussions with
Poland about a potential deal in which Poland would supply Ukraine with MiG-29
fighter jets that Ukraine has requested, and the US would then provide Poland
with American F-16s. Poland,
however, on Tuesday took the US by surprise and offered to deploy all its MiG-29 fighter jets to help
Ukraine in its fight against Russia -- but by first sending the jets to US Ramstein
Air Base in Germany, also a NATO nation. The
US Defense Department rejected the proposal as not "tenable" and
deemed it too risky. "The
prospect of fighter jets 'at the disposal of the Government of the United
States of America' departing from a U.S./NATO base in Germany to fly into
airspace that is contested with Russia over Ukraine raises serious concerns for
the entire NATO alliance," Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a
statement later Tuesday. US
officials described the issue to CNN as two-fold: a logistics problem of
getting the jets to Ukraine, and a political problem of avoiding escalation
with Russia. US officials described the Polish plan as failing to adequately
address both. NATO
members have expressed concerns that providing fighter jets to Ukraine -- even
if done bilaterally -- could be perceived by Russia as the alliance becoming
directly involved in the war, NATO diplomats told CNN. Poland,
a NATO member and neighbor of Ukraine, has also been worried about the risks of
sharing the fighter jets with Ukraine, as they don't want to become a party to
the conflict and escalate the situation along their border, Polish officials
told CNN. If
a Russian attack extends into one of the bordering NATO countries, it could
trigger Article 5 of NATO's founding treaty, which is the
principle that an attack on one member of the alliance is an attack on all
members. If
Article 5 is invoked, the US and other NATO members would then be obligated to
provide resources to protect a fellow NATO member and could find themselves
directly involved in the Ukraine-Russia conflict. US,
Poland still discussing possible deal After
declining Poland's proposal on Tuesday, the US said it continues to consult
with Poland and other NATO allies about the issue of providing fighter jets to
Ukraine, which senior administration officials told CNN remains a priority for
the Biden administration. American
and Polish officials have held a "number of conversations" since the
White House was caught off guard by Warsaw's statement, a US administration
official told CNN, adding that the relationship between the two countries
remains strong despite the disagreement. US
Vice President Kamala Harris is also traveling to Poland this week and is expected to
discuss the issue. US
officials also told CNN that they do not believe the episode precludes reaching
some type of agreement that would allow the jets to get to Ukraine. As
of now, though, there are no immediate apparent solutions for the US to
facilitate the delivery of jets to Ukraine since rejecting Poland's offer. "I
think what we're seeing is that Poland's proposal shows that there are some
complexities that the issue presents when it comes to providing security
systems. We have to make sure that we're doing it the right way,"
Secretary of State Antony Blinken told reporters Wednesday at the State
Department headquarters. Logistical
challenges The
US has made clear that sending jets to Ukraine is a "sovereign
decision" for Poland to make, but has been willing to help sort through
the challenges. Besides
the political quagmire, there are logistical challenges with sending fighter
jets to Ukraine for the US and NATO allies to still work out. "Secretary
Austin, Chairman Milley and members of our Defense Department are in touch with
Ukrainian counterparts, NATO counterparts, discussing what are clearly
logistical challenges here," White House press secretary Psaki said on
Wednesday. Psaki
cited some of the logistical and operational challenges: getting planes into
Ukraine in a way that is not escalatory, potentially having to take the planes
apart and putting them back together, and ensuring the planes' safe movement
amid a war. She
later called it a "serious logistical bottleneck," saying that
discussions on the matter are ongoing. Open-ended
questions include how the aircraft would actually be moved from Poland to
Ukraine and the number of Ukrainian pilots available, US Ambassador to NATO
Julianne Smith told CNN's Christiane Amanpour on Monday. One
idea floated initially was that Ukrainians would travel to Poland to retrieve
the fighter jets and fly them back into Ukraine's dangerous air space, which US
officials say remains contested. Ukraine
late last month made a request for MiG-29s to Poland, Slovakia and Bulgaria, and
Zelensky on Saturday in a call with US lawmakers pleaded for US help in getting
the fighter aircraft to his country.  Some
of the countries appeared to have a willingness to consider this move before
Poland offered to send their MiG-19s. As of Wednesday, US officials are not
ruling out talks with those three other European nations as they seek a way to
get the fighter jets to Ukraine.