President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday evening
launched a seminal report detailing Kenya’s progress towards entrenching
equality. The report titled “Leave no one behind. Peace
and Conflict Analysis: Through the eyes of those at risk of being left behind”
was prepared by the United Nations office in Kenya in partnership with the
Government of Kenya. Speaking at State House, Nairobi, during the
virtual launch of the report, President Kenyatta said Kenya has made
significant steps towards entrenching equality through the adoption of the
Constitution of Kenya 2010. “Since adoption of the Constitution of Kenya
2010, we have made good progress in reducing inequality. Indeed, the 2020 Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) report confirms this position. “Equality is enshrined in the Constitution of
Kenya 2010 which recognizes every person is equal before the law and has the
right to equal protection and equal benefit of the law,” President Kenyatta
said. President Kenyatta added that the
Constitution of Kenya 2010 embedded devolution which aims to bring people
closer to Government, enabled them to participate more directly in the
development process and aligned Government response to local needs and
aspirations. The report, which builds on the clarion call
by UN Secretary General who identified 12 priority action areas focused on
“leaving no one behind” in his address to the General Assembly on 10th
September last year, provides a more granular picture of inclusion especially
for those at risk of being left behind. The report further identifies communities and
groups in Kenya currently “at risk of being left behind” by the development
process. The Head of State said the Government has
been proactive in allocating more resources to counties that still lag behind
in development as part of its efforts to boost equality. “But this remains work in progress. This is why
the Government has been proactive in targeting additional resources to those
parts of the country still lagging behind in development,” President Kenyatta
said. President Kenyatta added that his
administration has given priority to strengthening the socio-economic fabric
through expansion of education and health facilities as well as improvement of
infrastructure across the country. The President said the notion of “leaving no
one behind” is the cardinal principle underpinning the 2030 Sustainable Development
Agenda – an agenda whose development and adoption Kenya is proud and distinctly
privileged to have led. Speaking during the event, UN Deputy
Secretary General and Chair of the UN Sustainable Development Group Amina
Mohammed said her organization will continue to work closely with member states
to eradicate poverty, discrimination and exclusion. On his part, UN Resident Coordinator Dr
Stephen Jackson commended Kenya for initiating the agenda of ‘leaving no one
behind’ noting that all stakeholders need to continue working as a team for the
desired goals to be achieved. He said the report, which was a joint effort
involving UN agencies in Kenya, the University of Nairobi, Ministry of
Interior, civil societies and State House, focused on geographical location,
socio-economic status, discrimination, governance and vulnerability to shocks. “So what we tried to do was to crowd in data
on all these different factors, especially on socio-economy, geographical
location and access to governance,” said Dr Jackson.  Also present at the event were Head of Public
Service Dr Joseph Kinyua, National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani and
Swedish Ambassador to Kenya Caroline Vicini among other senior Government and
UN officials.