 Dr. Atudonyang, who is now vying for the West Pokot Governorship, claims that he did not receive a salary for his role as deputy governor, and that the funds were used to hire more staff for the county. “I did not receive any salary, it was just deemed profitable for the people of West Pokot that I serve them in the manner that I did,” Dr. Atudonyang said on Sunday. The Texas-based physician claims that his salary would have employed more county workers, not to mention the cost of running his office, which he claims would have run into the hundreds of millions of shillings. “Did you know that the salary of a deputy governor can employ at least 30 people?” Dr. Atudonyang fought back against accusations that his return to the United States amounted to a dereliction of duty, insisting that despite being out of the country, he was fully committed to his mandate, albeit remotely. “I never abdicated duty, as long as you are still working and making meaningful work for the electorate  is enough,” he argued. “Did the people realize the sacrifice I was making as their deputy governor?” He went on to explain how his decision to return to the United States saved the county millions of shillings, making his deputy governor's office the cheapest in the country. He claims the most notable achievement was the increment of the CDF fund to some Ksh.400 million, the highest of any county. During his Sunday interview with Citizen TV, the West Pokot Governor candidate was also quick to dismiss rumors that he and the incumbent, Prof. John Lonyangapuo, were feuding. He will be seeking to oust his current boss Prof. Lonyangapuo on a KANU ticket. Governor Lonyangapuo recently launched the Kenya United Party (KUP), which will serve as his political vehicle through 2022. The West Pokot county boss previously defended his deputy's decision to work for the county while based in the United States, even going so far as to testify before the Senate and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to defend himself for allowing his deputy to work and live in the United States, claiming that his deputy was assisting the county in locating health equipment. The governor in 2019 told the Senate that: “After the equipment arrived, he prolonged his stay, so I told him now we can no longer have any reason to explain to anybody in West Pokot why you should continue being paid. Then he said his salary should be terminated.” However, this was before Prof. Lonyangapuo's patience ran out in June 2020. He surprisingly accused Dr. Atudonyang of working with some political leaders from the county to undermine his administration from his base in the U.S.   