United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party is now accusing President
Uhuru Kenyatta-led Jubilee party of harassing its aspirants ahead of the August
General Elections. In a statement issued on Thursday, by the party’s Election Board Chairman Anthony
Mwaura claimed that candidates seeking positions in specific regions of the country were being intimidated by the
ruling party to defect from UDA. Areas linked to the alleged intimidationthreats included the Mt Kenya
region, Kisii and Nyamira counties. “United Democratic Alliance has noted with concern and
dismay the underhand illegal tactics being deployed by the depleted and
desperate Jubilee Party through government agencies to dissuade our aspirants
from contesting in the August elections,” read a section of the statement. UDA outrightly pointed an accusing finger on Interior
Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho, whom they
said were the masterminds orchestrating the said attacks in their backyards in
Kisii and Kirinyaga Counties respectively. The party, which is led by Deputy President William Ruto, cited that some of the threats include anticipated arrests, accusations of tax evasion, trumped-up
criminal charges and use of fake opinion polls, which they said was centred on
coercing their candidates to decamp to Jubilee. “Dr Fred Matiang'i has been intimidating UDA aspirants and
denying them permission to hold public meetings. The aspirants live in fear
because the CS through the provincial administration has ensured that they are
constantly harassed,” stated Mwaura. In Kirinyaga, Mwaura said: “Karanja Kibicho, has seen
coordinated harassments of UDA aspirants for gubernatorial, senate, Woman
Representative and Member of County Assembly positions.” The party cited Kerugoya MCA Kamau
Murango's case, claiming that the senatorial aspirant had been  nabbed by DCI sleuths in his Embu home, driven
to Nairobi for questioning and later urged to "switch his political side to
Jubilee Party so that his tribulations could end." The statement similarly mentioned other cases across the country
affecting; Woman Representatives Aisha Jumwa (Kilifi), Gathoni Wamuchomba (Kiambu), and Nakuru
Senator Susan Kihika who they said had their billboards vandalized. As UDA condemns the attacks, it has also upheld its prior assertions
that ‘the Jubilee party is dead’ and that it would use its legal team to defend
its aspirants.  “UDA condemns in the strongest terms possible, these acts of
intimidation, which have no space in a democratic country. UDA lawyers will
defend any aspirant who is harassed by these criminal gangs,” noted the statement.