Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang now claims
that Deputy President William Ruto is the glue holding the Kenya Kwanza
Alliance together. Kajwang,
who was speaking on the JKLive show alongside his Nakuru counterpart Susan
Kihika on Wednesday, made the sentiments on the premise that Kenya Kwanza's
political activities in the country slowed down when the Deputy President
toured the United States earlier this month. According
to Kajwang, should DP Ruto be unavailable for whatever reason, the Kenya
Kwanza coalition will likely collapse in his absence. “Kenya
Kwanza is a one-man army, there is just one centre of gravity and it is William
Ruto. If William Ruto is indisposed and God forbid, their reggae stops because
without William Ruto there is no reggae in their camp,” Kajwang said. The
inconsistencies in Kenya Kwanza’s modus operandi during the DP's absence,
Kajwang added, alludes to the possibility that DP Ruto might resort to a
dictatorship type of government in the event that he emerges victorious in the
race to State House. “I think
it is also dangerous because you also don’t want to build a government that is
centred around one person. You end up becoming a dictator who cannot share
simple things like itinerary that when you are in the U.S, Kenya Kwanza is in
the U.S,” he said. Kajwang
went on to highlight how the DP’s allies such as Bungoma Senator Moses
Wetangula and his Tharaka Nithi counterpart Kithure Kindiki, who were left in
charge of Kenya Kwanza affairs when the DP was out of the country, struggled to
fill the DP’s shoes. The Homa Bay Senator went as far as alluding
that Kenya Kwanza is a non-constructive opposition party. “I saw
Kithiki and Wetangula address a handful of people at the Coast while you guys
were out there meeting clerks in the U.S. We pray for you so you can be a
constructive opposition because you have always said that Kenya needs a
constructive opposition, I hope you are learning the ropes so you can be a
constructive opposition,” he said. Kajwang
also chimed in on the Supreme Court ruling of the Building Bridges Initiative
(BBI) slated for Thursday citing that it will be monumental not just for Kenya
but other countries which have adopted a similar constitutional framework as
Kenya. “People
thought that we were going to go for a referendum before the elections but they
are already here. Chances are if the Supreme Court says it is okay, you guys go
ahead, most likely a lot of these things will be done after the next general
election,” he said. His
sentiments were however dismissed by Kihika, who first insisted that Kenya
Kwanza can operate like clockwork in the absence of the Deputy President,
citing that all members are actively involved in the party's proceedings. "When
you talk about a one-man show I don’t see how the party leaders of the other
parties within the Azimio formation are not at the table. They are just spectators
but our formation is not a one-man show. It is actually one of those where
all of us are at the table," she said. She likewise urged the Supreme Court to take
a page out of the books of the High Court and the Court of Appeal and dismiss
the BBI bill. According
to Kihika, the proposed bill should never have been suggested in the first
place owing to the fact that the country cannot even afford to implement it. This
coupled with the fact that Kenya’s cost of living has exponentially increased
in recent years should be enough reason for the Supreme Court to dismiss the
bill. “It
should never have been there. It is their right to litigate it but at the same
time I don’t think a lot of those things had merit so I am hopeful that the
Supreme Court will see what the High Court and the Court of Appeal saw and rule
it in the same way,” she said.  “We are
in a crisis right now and I think that should be the focus, the cost of living
is extremely high most people are not able to put food on the table or take
care of their families. BBI should not be a priority, we need to work on our economy
as per the Hustler camp.”