Deputy President William Ruto launched an attack on
President Uhuru Kenyatta during a rally at the Thika Stadium on Sunday,
accusing the Head of State of turning his back on the electorate who propelled
him to the top job in three elections. The DP who was flanked by his Kenya Kwanza allies, claimed that after listening to President Kenyatta’s 
endorsement of Raila Odinga on Saturday, he came to the conclusion that
the intention of the handshake was never to pursue peace, but to install a
puppet president. “Nilikusikia Jana ndugu yangu mambo ya handshake mambo ya
bbi haikuwa mambo ya Amani ya kuunganisha wakenya, ilikuwa mambo ya kuunda
stooge ama puppet ya kuendesha Kenya,” DP Ruto said, referring to the endorsement
of Raila as the Azimio la Umoja flagbearer. DP Ruto also accused his boss of persecuting his former
allies, claiming that the Kenya Revenue Authority has been weaponised against
his critics. “KRA was weaponised against individuals and businesses. Even
boda boda was attacked,” DP Ruto said on Sunday. “I want to tell president Kenyatta, we have 4 million youth
who do not have jobs. The kitendawili project has no capacity to deal with the
problems of Kenyans. He is a puppet for a few individuals. That project will
fail and will fail miserably,” DP Ruto accused President Kenyatta of disrespecting the
church leaders who prayed for him in 2013, when the two leaders were facing
crimes against humanity charges at the ICC. “Tafadhali rais usiite majina viongozi wetu wa makanisa, hao
ndio walituombea tulienda Hague,” the DP added. During the Sunday rally, leaders allied to the Kenya Kwanza
alliance poured water on the endorsement of ODM leader Raila Odinga as the
Azimio la Umoja flag-bearer by more than 20 parties on Saturday. Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo who is seeking the
Kiambu governor seat on a Tujibebe Wakenya ticket claimed the Head of State
cannot purport to give Central Kenya political direction. “Kuna watu wanasema tunaonyeshwa njia na Uhuru Kenyatta
haiwezekani. Hata Mimi naweze zungumza Kwa niaba ya jamii ya wakikuyu,” Kabogo
said. “Nimefanya mkutano  na
William Ruto, nikamwambia nataka kuangazia mambo ya mlima Kenya. Nikamwambia
tuko na shida ya ugawaji WA raslimali. Nataka niwaonyeshe mahali Kura yangu ya
urais itakuwa,” ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, also present at the rally, said
the recent 10-day tour of the US and the UK by a team led by DP Ruto was a
testimony that the Kenya Kwanza Alliance was enjoying support both locally and
internationally. “Walikuwa waunda porojo kuwa hatakikani na mataifa ya ngambo
na kuwa si kiongozi, those rumours have been dismissed because we have shown
that the people of Kenya are with us and the international community has
nothing to fear,” Mudavadi said. The Sunday rally also saw Kiambu Senator Kimani wa Matangi
decamp to the DP Ruto-led UDA party. 