  Mbarak says cases against the three including Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Fahim Twaha (Lamu) and Dhadho Ghodana (Tana River) have been pending for a few years, saying the move is in no way related to political alignments of the said county bosses.  “We have investigated, we have our facts, let the DPP give his consent and we believe our cases against most governors are watertight. And these governors are from both sides of the political divide,” said Mbarak.   Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru is wanted for imprest of Ksh.10.6 million that she is alleged to have received for trips she never made, or trips that were unofficial.  This matter has bogged her for years, which had her go through an impeachment motion in 2020 at both the Kirinyaga County Assembly and the Senate. She survived at the Senate but the issue still hangs behind her.  The Lamu Governor has been under investigation since his second year in office. He is alleged to have been behind some irregular appointments, part of which brought in persons not qualified for their roles while others were done un-procedurally without the approval of the Lamu county public service board.  Tana River Governor Dhadho Ghodana on his part is wanted for what EACC claims is irregular procurement of motor vehicles and motorcycles. EACC claims that the tendering process was flawed especially at the point of tender evaluation and the professional opinion that led to the deal.  Ghodana is wanted alongside his roads CEC and other senior officials who were involved in the procurement process.  Twalib’s statement comes days after Deputy President William Ruto claimed that EACC and other key state agencies in the fight against economic crimes had been used by the government to punish politicians opposed to the regime.  However, the EACC boss has pushed back at the DP’s claim.  “The issue of State capture, I don’t like the term. State capture in what sense? Nobody tells us to go this way and that way. Put yourself in this situation, can someone call you and tell you fix this one and do it in a day or month. Politicians are playing politics and EACC is working professionally,” said Twalib. 