The British government is committed to
supporting the Kenyan government’s big four agenda as well as education programmes. The
government’s big four programmes include food security, affordable housing,
universal healthcare, and manufacturing and job creation In
an interview with Citizen Digital, British
Ambassador to Kenya Jane Marriot said the two countries share deep relations
noting that thousands of Kenyan scholars have gone to the UK on study
programmes. “Hundreds
of scholars have gone from Kenya to the UK for the scholarships. Essentially,
there are three types; there is a Chevening scholarship, probably the most famous,
where we have 500 alumni from Kenya for the last two to twenty last years per
say,” Marriott said, adding that, “So, it’s great…even if we are cooperating on
a lot of things on education,” she noted, adding that, “In the past we watched
a specific program. We are supporting the government in delivering specific
objectives including the big four objectives. We believe strictly in girl’s
education. Both education must be merged because we are slightly lagging behind
at the moment,” she explained. Noting
that schools in far-flung regions such as North Eastern and Tana River face
more challenges compared to those in urban settings such as Nairobi, the
diplomat said that they will continue with their global partnerships programmes
to ensure there is better infrastructure in such schools. “We
are supposed to clear certain areas with a bit more focus on nutrition, family
planning and hunger safety programs that are coming up with some ticket items
like UK sports.” She
went on: “In Nairobi there are schools with decent classrooms, a teacher…
pupils who have uniforms and probably there are 30 pupils in a class but when I
go to Garissa, somewhere like that, you find out there are up to 300 pupils in
a class. You find out there is no classroom big enough for them and there are
not enough teachers. “So
I think the great things that would be great to see for the next decade or so,
sooner or that ideally, is seeing more teachers in those rural areas, more
infrastructure to those schools, and the UK will dispatch(support) through the
Labour Partnership of Education.” Over
the years, several Kenyan students have advanced their studies in the UK and
Marriott hopes the graduates will continue doing ‘amazing things’. “There are a total of 500 students who studied
under Chevening scholarships from Kenya. That is a fully paid scholarship, that
is the academic fees, the living cost, all paid all by the British tax payer,” she
concluded.  Marriott
made the remarks on Thursday evening at her official residence in Muthaiga,
Nairobi when she hosted a section of Kenyan alumni who have previously studied
in various universities across the UK.