Former Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju
now says that he is still keeping his options open between two counties on
which political seat to pursue at the upcoming elections after making a recent
announcement which implied that he will throw his hat in the arena come the
August polls. This comes after Tuju formally relinquished
his position in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet as well as the ruling
Jubilee Party as Secretary General during the recent National Delegates
Convention (NDC). According to Tuju, owing to his proven track
record, he has the option of contesting for any elective position either in
Nairobi County or his home turf of Siaya County. He however said that before he declares which
one he will go for, he has to first make consultations with various players in
the political arena of the two counties as well as the residents. “I am here looking at various political
offices. I have lived in Nairobi for the last 49 years. I have a home here and
I can contest for any seat in Nairobi, with the right consultation. I can go to
maybe three constituencies where I have some comparative advantage,” Tuju said on
Wednesday during an interview on Citizen TV’s JKLive Show. “I can also contest in my home county of
Siaya…I have this fortunate position that I do have name recognition and I do
have a track record in the political arena so it is much easier for me to get
into the fray.” Tuju continued on to say that despite which
elective seat he decides to pursue, he will continue serving the people of
Kenya with vigour and enthusiasm. Some of the most satisfying political
achievements of his life, Tuju said, pertain to him positively influencing and
transforming the lives of Kenyans that he has had the opportunity to serve
during his political career. “As I am talking to you there are some kids
that I have helped. One of them is operating a very successful ICT business in
London. This was a kid I took in in Form Three, sponsored him through high
school, got him a scholarship out of the country…he’s now willing to help,” he
said. “Another one is very successful in Mombasa,
he sent me a Prado and a brand new pick up, free of charge. I have also
sponsored some kids who are now doctors…and that gives you more satisfaction
than the latest model of a Toyota VX.” Having served as Jubilee Secretary General
for almost five years, Tuju also chimed in on the controversial handshake
between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former premier Raila Odinga stating that
he firmly believes the deal between the pair was struck with the country’s best
interest at heart. “I think the president made the right
decision in reaching out to Raila. In other countries such as Ethiopia, they
are settling political differences through the barrel of a gun but in our
country we are just arguing and that is just okay,” said the former Rarieda MP. He likewise opined that his Jubilee Secretary
General successor, Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni, is the most qualified candidate
to steer the party forward following wrangles that erupted in the party after
the handshake.  “I symphathise with my friend Kioni but he is
up to the task. I don’t think there could be a better Secretary General.
 I left but Kioni also has nationalistic credentials. He is experienced
and he is a very calm and sober person. I trust that he is able to steer the
party through this challenging period,” he said. 