Deputy President William Ruto has 
fired back at his boss, a day after he was accused of having plotted to
impeach President Uhuru Kenyatta shortly after the General Election in 2017. Ruto who was touring
Malindi claimed the allegations were from his competitors who ‘have clearly run
out of propaganda to peddle’ “Ati Ruto anaweza
kupindua Rais, mnagawanya wakenya for nothing, wakenya wamekataa project yenu.
Ati niweke serikali ndani alafu nifanye njama ya kupinduwa serikali, you must
be confusing me with your project,” DP Ruto said on Sunday. “As deputy president I
know what I must do, I will never, have never and would never do anything that
would bring down the government,” “Respect those of us
who campaigned for Uhuru Kenyatta, you are desperate spreading falsehoods and
propaganda. I will never and have never been part of anything to bring down the
government, shame on you shame on you you deserve nothing but shame,” Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa
who was hosting the deputy president said DP Ruto’s competitors had ran out of
ideas, and were now resorting to cheap propaganda. Rais aliye na nguvu na
jeshi anatumia propaganda kama mtu wa kawaida,” the vocal MP said “Propaganda wachia
wengine, sema mambo ya kweli, mlisema Ruto ni mwizi mkaona watu hawanunui,” “Nani alijiapisha,
wewe rais saa hii si ni wewe uko na yeye. Ulimsaliti Ruto na malipo ya usaliti
ni hapa hapa duniani” The latest comes just
a day after President Kenyatta who hosted a delegation of at least 3,000 Mt
Kenya region  elders claimed that his
deputy had planned to impeach him and seize power through the back door. Kenyatta, who was
addressing Gìkùyù elders who visited him at State House, Nairobi said Ruto had
an insatiable appetite for power and was keen on fomenting dissent from within
the Jubilee party, to elbow his boss. The President also
took time to explain to the elders why he reached out to ODM Leader Raila
Odinga and shook hands in March 2018. Explaining the
Handshake, Kenyatta told the elders that he reached out to his arch-rival
turned ally, to steady the government, and slow puncture what he termed Ruto's
grand plan to sabotage his administration and ascend to power through the
backdoor. Kenyatta accusing Ruto
of opposing the handshake and pushing him to play hard ball against the ODM
leader, with whom he had faced off in the August 2017 presidential race, whose
outcome was overturned by the Supreme Court. With the Presidential
race 135 days away, Kenyatta justified his choice of Odinga as his preferred
successor, terming Ruto impatient and a leader who focused more on the 2022
succession politics than execution of his duties as his principal assistant. The Head of State took
the opportunity to call on all parties allied to the Azimio La Umoja outfit in
central Kenya to wisely field candidates and ensure they do not split votes, to
the advantage of candidates allied to Ruto's UDA party. Kenyatta urging the
elders and political leaders present to mobilise their supporters to vote for
Odinga, but also emerge with a majority of Members of Parliament in the
National Assembly and Senate, Governors and MCA’s, to secure the community's
and regional interests in the government that will be established after the
August polls. 