Superyachts
have been making headlines for all the wrong reasons in recent weeks as more
and more vessels linked to Russian oligarchs are temporarily frozen. Some of the largest and most expensive
superyachts in the world, including Sailing Yacht A, which is valued at over
$500 million, and $120 million yacht
Amore Vero, are languishing at ports and shipyards after the United
States, the UK and the EU imposed sanctions on Russia as part of a foreign
pressure campaign over Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine. "We are joining with our European allies to
find and seize your yachts, your luxury apartments, your private jets," US
President Joe Biden said in his
State of the Union address earlier this month. "We are
coming for your ill-begotten gains." In the weeks since then, Axioma, a superyacht
with ties to another Russian billionaire, has been detained by authorities in
Gibraltar, while a group of Ukrainian sailors were seen attempting to block a
yacht linked to soccer club-owning billionaire Roman Abramovich as it docked in
Turkey earlier this week. The Maldives has also emerged as a "safe
haven" for yachts in danger of being frozen, and data from live vessel
tracking site Marine Traffic indicates
that some well-known ships are either en route to the Indian Ocean island
nation, or are already there. This
sudden turn of events have served as a major blow to the superyacht industry,
which has been booming over the last two years, with demand soaring higher than
ever. Figures
from Boat International's Global Order Book indicated that the number of
vessels in production or on order worldwide hit a new record high at the end of
2021. However,
there are reports that production on a number of superyachts being built for
Russians in Europe-based shipyards has been paused as the vessels now fall
under new G7 and EU sanctions banning
the export of luxury goods to Russia. "We've
had a phenomenal couple of years in the industry," international luxury
business strategist Alice C. I'Anson Widdows tells CNN Travel. "Demand has
been outstripping supply. Then suddenly we're being halted
mid-production." The
circumstances also appear to be having an impact on sales, at least in the
short term. Raphael
Sauleau, chief executive officer of Fraser Yachts,
says he's noticed some hesitancy among Europe-based buyers over the past few
weeks, but attributes this to uncertainty over the unfolding events in Ukraine
rather than the sanctions themselves. "Overall,
some buyers, especially those in Europe, are a little bit hesitant,"
Sauleau tells CNN Travel. "But
that has nothing to do with the sanctions we are seeing around the world, it's
more a matter of them wanting to wait to see how the conflict evolves before
they commit to buying a yacht." While
it's estimated Russian-owned superyachts account for just 7 to 10% of the
global fleet, they tend to be the most high-profile due to their size and
stature. "Of
course, these yachts and their owners make the headlines, because the yachts
are often the very biggest in the industry," adds Saleau. "For
now, the demand for yachts and yachting that we have seen increase so much
worldwide over the last two years is still very prevalent." Private
yacht broker Denis Suka, who runs popular luxury yacht-focused Instagram
account @theyachtmogul, says he's stopped
posting about superyachts owned by Russians altogether due to the hostile
response they've been receiving since the sanctions were introduced. "The
yachts that were the most attractive to our audience were the big Russian
yachts," he says. "But that has all turned around because of what's
happening. No one wants to see them anymore." Suka
says he's also noticed a decrease in sales over the past month as buyers
grapple with the disquiet that the conflict in Ukraine has brought about. "Sales
have been dropping," Suka adds. "I think even the biggest brokerages
are affected by what's happening. I am seeing a lot of impact in the industry.
Everyone is concerned right now." Aside
from the impact on sales, the turmoil has led to other changes, admits Saleau,
including an apparent increase in checks onboard boats by local customs,
particularly within Europe. "If
the boat is not owned by an individual on the sanction list, then the yacht can
typically move freely," he explains. "But we've seen an increase in
checks in Europe for sure. "It
can be a strain on the crew, because obviously yacht crew are international. So
it can be stressful for them to go through this exercise. "Our
teams are doing everything we can to support and guide the crew of any of our
yachts or people affected by the current situation." It's
thought that owners are likely to spend at least 10% of the purchase price on
the yearly cost of maintaining and operating their yachts. According
to Luxury Yacht Group's online cost calculator,
the annual salaries for workers onboard a 150-foot yacht is likely to reach up
to $860,850. However,
the seizure of some of the biggest yachts in the world has led to crew members
suddenly finding themselves out of work, and out of pocket in some cases. "This
is a €30 billion a year industry, which provides thousands of jobs," says
Widdows, who has 25 years of experience in the business
of superyachts. "It's
important to understand that each yacht is a business which generates income,
supporting an industry of businesses and families." She
also notes that many of the workers and suppliers from the yachts that come
under the sanctions are not from Russia. "Many
are now caught up in it," she adds. "There's stories of crew not
being able to be paid. Now, everyone's just interested in keeping things moving
and in production and keeping people in jobs." The
outbreak of the war has also led to an increase in prices. In the US, gas prices have almost doubled in recent
weeks, while Europe, where prices were already relatively high, has also seen
rises. "Some
people are complaining about filling their car tank," says Suka. "But
filling a mega yacht, that's really something to be worried about. The price
has doubled." The
cost of materials has also been jumping up in some parts of the world, with
items such as aluminum, which a number of superyachts are now built from, surging to a record high as
a result of the conflict. Then
there's the privacy element. Yacht ownership can be very difficult to pin down,
particularly if the owner is keen to prevent their identity from being
disclosed. "If
the beneficial owner wants to make it difficult, then it can be very hard to
trace who the true owner is," Benjamin Maltby, an expert in superyacht
law, tells CNN via email. "Nearly
all large yachts are owned by companies, as they are sources of liability which
owners prefer to ring fence." However,
this level of secrecy is now proving to be more problematic, as customers are beginning
to ask further questions about the background of the yachts they're hiring. "At
times, we see some charterers wanting to know who owns the boat, or vice
versa," explains Sauleau. "Owners are wanting to know who's going to
come onboard their boat for the summer. "So
that's a new turn of events whereby we need to be very, very careful in our due
diligence on all fronts." However,
he notes that several Russian linked superyachts are privately owned and not
available to charter. As
for the superyachts that have already been frozen, it's not clear how long
they'll be held for, and what state they'll be in if or when they're released
for that matter. Maltby
stresses that it's unusual for multiple yachts to be put out of action in this
way, noting that on the rare occasions that a yacht is detained, it's more
commonly a measure to force the owner to provide financial security to a party
claiming against them. Unprecedented
situation "The current situation is
unprecedented," Maltby tells CNN, before explaining that while authorities
"may undertake basic maintenance" on the yachts, it's likely they'll
view the vessels as assets and be less concerned about their upkeep. "Without intensive maintenance, yachts can
deteriorate rapidly -- especially when left in the water allowing galvanic
corrosion to erode key metal parts," he adds. "With regard to the long term, selling the
yachts appears to be the most popular option within the superyacht sector." As for the unfinished yachts commissioned by
Russians currently in production, there are already reports that non-Russian
buyers have been making offers to take over these projects. "I think that the yachts that are in build
will be snapped up by other interested parties, because the Russian owners can
no longer own them," says Widdows. "That's the biggest impact we'll be seeing
in the next couple of months, because if the boats can't get delivered, that's
a real headache for the industry." Sauleau notes that the spate of recent stories
about superyachts being "seized" hasn't done wonders for the image of
an industry that's been gaining from more positive coverage in recent times. "Yachting is so much more than being about
mega yachts or, as is in the news at the moment, Russian oligarchs," he
says, after stressing that any negative publicity "is obviously very, very
minor compared to the terrible events in Ukraine." While Widdows is also mindful of the damage the
controversy may have done to the reputation of the industry, she's been
encouraged by the way the yachting community has come together to help those
that have been affected by the conflict. According to Yachties
United, a website that offers social support, shelter and
donations with crew members in need, there are over 600 Ukrainian yacht crew
with families in Ukraine. "The industry is based on the strength of
relationships and its ability to respond quickly in a crisis," says
Widdows. "There are various initiatives, from Palma
and even Monaco, with all the yachting companies coming together to support the
efforts and provide medical care, food and clothing for Ukraine. "A truck left on Friday from Antibes [in
France] with food and medical supplies, and that was all generated from within
the yachting business." While it's impossible to predict how the
situation in Ukraine will develop, it's certainly possible that more wealthy
Russians will be added to sanction lists, which means even more yachts could be
frozen. If this continues, the effects will surely be felt across the board. "The sanctions for Russian residents are
very strong, especially in Europe," admits Sauleau. "So this may have
an impact on the sales market and possibly the charter market going forward." But Sauleau maintains that demand is still high
overall, pointing out that American buyers appear to be less hesitant than
those based in Europe. "We haven't seen that [hesitancy] in
America yet." In 2020, US and Canadian buyers jointly made up
24% of all new-build sales of yachts over 40 meters to buyers whose nationality
was known, according to data from intelligence platform SuperYacht
Times iQ. "I
think at this point of time we are waiting to see what's going to happen,"
adds Sauleau. "One possibility is that there may be some reluctance from
US-based charterers to come over to Europe this summer." If
this proves to be the case, it will undoubtedly cause problems for the European
market, which is still recovering from the impact of the global pandemic, and
is likely to be impacted by the loss of income from those yachts that have been
frozen or are out of action. "This
industry supports so many livelihoods across the western Mediterranean, and in
some of the holiday hotspots," says Widdows. "I
know they were affected during the pandemic. So if they don't get the income
that they usually get across their summer season it will affect their
livelihoods. "And
If they have another season where they're not getting the boats that they
usually get, what's that effect going to be on their bottom line?" While
Suka has been focusing on the US market in recent months, he admits to being
concerned about the implications for the European yachting market if things
continue into the summer. "The
longer it lasts, the worse it gets," he says. "These are quite
challenging times." While
it remains unclear if the current situation in Ukraine, along with the
sanctions, will lead to any serious long-term effects for the industry, there's
currently a great deal of optimism about the future. "We
receive charter requests from all over the world and people are still seeking
to travel," says Sauleau. "So I think this is something which has yet
to be seen if it really affects our industry to a greater extent. "It
has obviously put a lot of stress on people in our industry, but as it stands,
the business is still going forward." Widdows
shares this sentiment, acknowledging that the yachting world has dealt with
many difficult challenges in the past, including the global pandemic most
recently, and emerged stronger.  "Subject
to how this situation transpires, the yachting industry is resourceful. It is
resilient, and it will bounce back," she adds.