The Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party
has moved to stem disquiet among constituent party members by resolving to be
more inclusive in its decision-making. A meeting called after eight parties raised
concerns has also stated that there will be no zoning, allowing even the fringe
parties to participate in the elections. ODM party leader and Azimio-One Kenya
presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga's Thursday meeting was necessitated by
complaints raised by eight of the over twenty parties that make up the grand
coalition. The parties, including Alfred Mutua's
Maendeleo Chap Chap, Kivutha Kibwana's Muungano Party, and Charity Ngilu’s NARC
amongst others had complained of several issues including exclusion from
important matters and decisions. The complaints were still reverberating
across town at a meeting called by one of the parties, Mutua's Maendeleo Chap Chap. “We just signed a
page, on the belief that we will be given the rest of the document, because we
had been told the contents. But since that time we have been denied the
document,” Mutua, who is also the Machakos County governor, claimed. These concerns were put to rest after the
meeting brought together representatives of eleven political parties, at least
according to Raila’s presidential campaign secretariat spokesman Prof. Makau
Mutua. The Azimio-One Kenya team also agreed to
address inclusivity concerns that had been raised in a communique by the eight
parties. “It was decided
that the top organ of Azimio, which is the coalition council, will have 11
members drawn from the constituent parties; that is inclusive and will be able
to address this question of inclusion of political parties, whether they’re
small of large,” said Prof. Makau. The parties had also raised issue with
alleged plans to implement zoning in the August elections, saying their
candidates had already registered to vie for different seats in the elections. However, according to Prof. Makau: “There would be no zoning, and there has been
no zoning for the country for the political parties, any political party is
free to campaign.” Prof. Kibwana, who also attended the meeting,
says concerns raised by the eight parties were not meant to cause jitters in
the coalition, but to strengthen and rally constituent parties in one unified
direction. “These political
parties have a contribution to make, they want to belong, they have a following
in the country, and we don't want to fight Jubilee, ODM or Wiper…because if we
do so, then we shall have lost sight of the big picture," said Prof.
Kibwana, who is also the Makueni governor. These sentiments were echoed by Charity
Ngilu, the Kitui County boss, who says the parties in the coalition are now
speaking in one voice, with one goal. “It’s not about any
of us…it’s not about this party or the other party…we came together because we
believe that we’re like-minded…we did not come together because I want to be
this or that, and everybody who has come on board has said country first,” said
Governor Ngilu.  The Azimio -One Kenya meeting also resolved
to handle the running mate question through consultation, analysis of data and
evidence, at the appropriate time.