  The Kalonzo Musyoka-led party stated that the decision had been made following continuous negotiations with its members.  In the event held at Wiper Command Centre at Karen, Nairobi County, Wiper's National Election Board (NEB) chair Agatha Solitei said the negotiations served in ensuring peaceful contests and installing capable leaders.  She also noted that Wiper was democratic in its operation since it had conducted peaceful nominations in Nairobi and Mombasa on Thursday.  Among those who received the tickets include;   Former CAS Wavinya Ndeti The former Kathiani legislator will now be contesting for Machakos county's top seat after his competitor MP Patrick Makau shelved his ambition to support her.  Wavinya is yet to choose her running mate for the gubernatorial position.   Philip Kaloki –Nairobi Governorship Prof. Phillip Kaloki was endorsed to vie for the Nairobi gubernatorial seat under the Azimio la Umoja –One Kenya Alliance umbrella.  On his part, Kaloki said he would back businessman Richard Ngatia as his running mate during Azimio nominations.  "I will make your work easier I have accepted to be the DP for Ngatia so that we can be able to move forward. For our own safety and security, you will be our governor candidate," Kaloki said.  Enock Wambua – Kitui Senate  The incumbent Kitui Senator was given a direct ticket to defend his seat under the Wiper party. Businessman Allan Sila Kithome who was his key support pledged to support his bid.  Patrick Makau - Mavoko The MP secured the ticket to defend his seat after stepping down from the Machakos governorship seat in favour of Wavinya Ndeti.   He said his decision was based on partnering with other leaders to ensure the success of the party and the installation of Kalonzo as Raila's Deputy President come August.  Makau will be defending his seat for the third time after he was first elected in 2013.  Irene Kasalu- Women Rep Kitui The current Kitui Woman Representative was nominated by Wiper to defend her seat under the Wiper faction. She will be facing off with Jane Kibati, an independent candidate who has also declared her interest.   