The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party’s National
Elections Board (NEB) has postponed the party primaries in Bumula, Mt. Elgon,
Turkana Central, Kakamega and Turkana East constituencies. Speaking while issuing a media update on the nomination
exercise on Thursday, NEB Chairman Anthony Mwaura stated that the Bumula,
Turkana Central, and Turkana East elections will be held on Tuesday, April 19. Mt. Elgon and Kakamega will, meanwhile, hold their primaries
on Friday, April 15. “In Mt. Elgon and Kakamega we are carrying out tomorrow.
This affects very few constituencies and county assemblies and as a body we are
really pleased with the happenings,” said Mwaura. He attributed the postponement in Mt. Elgon to reports of
violence after rowdy youth barricaded roads blocking vehicles that
were ferrying election materials, adding that Kakamega’s changes had been
necessitated by logistic challenges. Mwaura further dismissed reports that primaries in Kuresoi
had been postponed, saying that save for a few hitches, the William Ruto-led
party was proud of the way it had conducted the polls.  “No other party is carrying out such nominations,” he added.  He also rubbished allegations of fake ballot
papers being spotted at polling stations, terming the claims as “unfounded
rumours.”. The UDA nomination ballot papers, Mwaura stated, were
fool-proof, and “they cannot even be photocopied.” “There have been allegations of fake ballot papers… those
are unfounded rumours we have found none. Our ballot papers are peculiar they
have the watermark. They are seriously serialized and nobody can give evidence
that they have been found anywhere. They cannot even be photocopied,” he said. Elsewhere in Embu, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba
Murkomen, who was dispatched to Embu by the UDA National Elections Board on
Thursday ahead of the party primaries, assured that the party primaries in the
county shall go on as planned even as a section of leaders in other regions
call for the nullification of the exercise amid rigging claims. “Elections will go on regardless of whether
there are a few people suffering from election fever and scared of losing,” he
added. In Bomet County, aspirants raised rigging claims at Tenwek
High School just hours after the exercise kicked off on Thursday morning,
wanting the exercise to be called off. Led by Former KNUT Secretary General Wilson Sossion, the
leaders claimed they had been able to access insecure ballot boxes and marked
ballot papers at Tenwek, raising concerns over the credibility of the party
primaries in the region. Bomet Governor Hilary Barchok also displayed to the media a
pair of ballot papers bearing his image in different outfits. In the original ballot, Barchok was in a
yellow tie while in the dubious one he was donning a red tie. In Kericho, Former Devolution
Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter commended the exercise noting that it is
by far the 'best nomination ever' further commending supporters for upholding
peace in the region. "I want to thank the party, I think this is the best
ever organized nominations exercise since I joined politics," said
Keter.