The National
Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) has dismissed reports that it has run out of vehicle registration
plates in Mombasa and Nairobi centres. This comes a day
after the Kenya Car Importers Association (KCIA) chairman said the Authority
had a shortage of vehicle number plates in Mombasa to meet the high demand for
motorists seeking to have registration done before leaving the port. NTSA now says that
it has enough reserves in its centres capable of running the country up to
KDH999N. Currently, registration is at KDH/K, KDH/M series. “NTSA in
undertaking its mandate provides an enabling environment to all stakeholders by
ensuring business operations are not affected in any way. In so doing, the
Authority has always ensured timely issuance of identification plates upon
registration of motor vehicles,” read the statement on Friday. “To ensure market
demands are met, the Authority has sufficient stocks in both Mombasa and
Nairobi with current identification plates available for allocation running up
to KDH999N.” KCIA national
chairman Peter Otieno had blamed the Authority over the delay in issuing
the number plates at the Container Freight Station, (CFS) at the port saying
that the delay was crippling operations and limiting importations of used
vehicles. “It is a total
failure due to the fact that our members are not getting services better. Our
previous system which was much friendly and the registration of our motor
vehicles could be done as fast as possible even though this issue of numbers
has been a problem,” Otieno said on Thursday. He added: “If this
system is not working, let them go back to the old system. Let them allow us to
remove the vehicles without numbers because they have never demonstrated that
the vehicles that have been removed without numbers to the CFSS are the
vehicles that are being used in crime.” The multi-agency appealed
to motorists to visit its website for any related services, noting
that registration is ongoing. “Currently, the
Authority is registering motor vehicles; KDH/K, KDH/M, series in Mombasa and
Nairobi respectively. NTSA services relating to registration, transfer and
inspection of motor vehicles are available on the website,” stated the report.  