The
Biden administration on Friday secured the release of Safi Rauf, 27, an
Afghan-American Naval reservist who was doing humanitarian work in Kabul and
who had been in captivity under the Taliban since December. Rauf
and his brothers, all former Afghan refugees, founded the Human First
Coalition, which, along with others in the "Digital Dunkirk"
movement, worked to evacuate those desperately trying to flee after Kabul fell.
The organization's work soon turned to humanitarian aid for Afghans, and Rauf
put medical school on hold to go to Kabul to try to provide crucially needed
aid. Rauf
and his brother Anees Khalil, a green card holder, were taken into custody by
the Taliban on December 18. After more than 100 days of intense negotiations
between the Biden administration and their captors, the Rauf brothers were
freed earlier Friday. In
a statement first obtained by CNN, Safi Rauf announced that on Friday, "we
were released due to the efforts of the US government (most especially
political officer JP Feldmayer, Special Representative Tom West, and Lt. Col.
Jason Hock), our family and loved ones, the Qatari government, the British
government, our team at Human First Coalition, and countless friends in
country, in the region, and all over the world." A
source with the Human First Coalition tells CNN that Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a
Connecticut Democrat, former New York Democratic Rep. Nita Lowey and national
security adviser Jake Sullivan were also very helpful in securing Rauf's
release. "Safiullah
Rauf and Anees Khalil were released after being unjustly detained in
Afghanistan," Ned Price, a State Department spokesman, said Friday.
"They are now in Qatar before traveling home. We are grateful for the
efforts of all those who worked to secure their release but more work remains.
Unjustly holding Americans captive is always unacceptable, and we will not stop
until every American who is being unjustly held against their will is able to
hug their families once again." A
State Department official added, "These individuals had been detained in
Afghanistan since December. When it became clear they would not be permitted to
leave, we planned and executed an approach to negotiate their release and
reunification with their loved ones. This was an interagency team that
conceived, planned out, and executed this important mission to bring home an
American citizen and an American lawful permanent resident. We also took
advantage of the opportunity to again press for the release of Mark Frerichs,
as we do in every meeting we have with the Taliban. We will never let up
anywhere, at any time, in our efforts to bring Americans who are unjustly
detained back home — whether it's Venezuela, Russia, Afghanistan, Syria, China,
Iran, or elsewhere." Frerichs,
also a Naval veteran, remains in Taliban custody. A civil engineer working on
development projects in Afghanistan, Frerichs was kidnapped before the February
2020 deal between the Trump administration and Taliban was signed. Born in an Afghan refugee camp in Pakistan, Safi Rauf came to the US and
graduated from high school in Omaha, Nebraska. Embedded with US special forces
as a linguist in Afghanistan for four years, he returned to the US and enlisted
in the US Navy Reserves. "Anees
and I wish to thank everyone who worked tirelessly to secure our release as
well as everyone who has supported the humanitarian efforts of our organization
Human First Coalition," Rauf said in his statement. "At this time, we
are looking forward to reuniting with our family and loved ones and ultimately,
I hope we can continue to advocate for and seek ways to serve the Afghan people
in this critical time of need in Afghanistan." Rauf
also said, "Our understanding is that this exceptionally unfortunate
situation arose due to a misunderstanding; we did nothing wrong." The
release of the Rauf bothers comes as the Taliban continues to seek recognition
as Afghanistan's legitimate government from the United States and other Western
nations. Since sweeping back into power in August 2021 as the Biden
administration withdrew all US troops from Afghanistan, the Taliban has
detained at least eight Westerners, CNN reported in February, including the Rauf brothers.  During
the US withdrawal, they worked alongside the Taliban amid a chaotic evacuation
of foreigners and Afghans from Kabul. Since then, US officials have been in
regular communication, but there are still dozens of Americans in Afghanistan
who have wanted to leave the country but have been unable to because there have
not been regular evacuation flights.