The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has
scheduled a training programme on the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) for
over 60,000 teachers between April and May 2022. According to a statement by TSC CEO Nancy
Macharia on Friday, the move is aimed at managing junior secondary school which
includes Grades 7, 8 and 9 that is slated to be rolled out in January 2023. Ms. Macharia stated that the target group
will range from public regular, special needs schools, and private institutions
focusing on teachers of Languages, Pure Sciences, Applied Sciences,
Mathematics, Humanities, and technical subjects. “The cascade model requires that the master
trainers train the Trainers of Trainers (ToTs) and thereafter offer
professional support during the face-to-face teachers training at county and
sub-county levels,” she stated. The CEO noted that the overall training would
kick start on April 25 and conclude on May 13; master trainers will train the
ToTs physically for four days, and the ToTs would then train teachers for
another four days. “The ToTs will train regular teachers at
sub-county level and the special needs education teachers at county level,”
she said. Start date for ToTs training will be May 2 to
May 6 while that of teachers will begin on May 9 and end on May 13. The TSC boss went further to highlight that
each secondary school across the country would be required to submit six
teachers in all the said divisions. Languages include; English, Kiswahili,
foreign and indigenous languages and Kenya Sign Language instructors. Pure Sciences are; Science, Biology,
Chemistry, Physics and Health Education. Applied Sciences are; Agriculture, Home
Science and Computer Studies. Humanities are; Citizenship, Geography,
History, Religious Studies and Life Skills. Technical subjects and creative arts are
pre-vocational and pre-career, business studies, music, sports and physical
education and home science. ToTs tutors, Ms. Macharia said, will include
those from teacher training colleges who are panelists with the Kenya Institute
of Curriculum Development (KICD), curriculum support officers and sub-county
TSC directors with a bachelor’s degree in Education and two-teaching subject
combinations.  Other qualifications considered for ToTs will
also include secondary school teacher champions drawn from the subjects to be
trained.