The United States accused Russia on Thursday
of planning to stage fake independence votes to justify its conquest of
territory in Ukraine, as Russian forces stepped up a major offensive in the east. Responding to repeated Ukrainian pleas to
Western leaders for supplies of heavier weaponry and equipment, U.S. President
Joe Biden asked Congress on Thursday for $33 billion  (Ksh 3.8
trillion) to support Kyiv, a massive jump in U.S. funding that includes
over $20 billion (Ksh 2.3 trillion) for weapons and ammunition and other
military aid. The package, also entailing $8.5
billion (about Ksh 984 million)  in direct economic
assistance and $3 billion (about Ksh 348 million) in humanitarian and food
security aid, forms part of U.S. efforts to isolate and punish Russia for its
Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine, which has flattened cities and forced more than 5
million people to flee abroad. Washington has said it hopes Ukrainian forces
can not only repel Russia's assault on the east but also weaken its military so
that it can no longer menace neighbours. Russia says that amounts to NATO
waging "proxy war" against it, and has made a number of threats this
week of unspecified retaliation. After being beaten back in efforts to capture
the capital Kyiv in the north, Russia has shifted forces hundreds of miles
eastward to capture two provinces in a battle the West believed may prove a
decisive turning point in the war. Russian forces are now entrenched in the
east, where Moscow-backed separatists have held some territory since 2014, and
also hold a swathe of the south they seized in March. The U.S. mission to the OSCE security body
said the Kremlin might attempt "sham referenda" in southern and
eastern areas it had captured since the Feb. 24 invasion, using "a
well-worn playbook that steals from history’s darkest chapters". "These falsified, illegitimate referenda
will undoubtedly be accompanied by a wave of abuses against those who seek to
oppose or undermine Moscow’s plans," the U.S. mission said. "The
international community must make clear that any such referendum will never be
recognised as legitimate." Ukraine reported explosions overnight in the
southern city of Kherson, the only regional capital Russia has captured so far
since the invasion. Russian troops there had used tear gas and stun grenades on
Wednesday to quell pro-Ukrainian crowds, and were now shelling the entire
surrounding region and attacking Mykolaiv and Kryvyi Rih, Ukrainian officials
said. Russian state media quoted an official from a
self-styled pro-Russian "military-civilian commission" in Kherson on
Thursday as saying the area would start using Russia's rouble currency from May
1. Ukraine's general staff said Russia was also
stepping up its main military assault in the east, where Moscow now aims to
seize all of two provinces partially controlled by separatists. "The enemy is increasing the pace of the
offensive operation. The Russian occupiers are exerting intense fire in almost
all directions," it said. It identified Russia's main attack as near
the towns of Slobozhanske and Donets, along a strategic frontline highway
linking Ukraine's second-largest city Kharkiv with the Russian-occupied city of
Izyum. The Kharkiv regional governor said Russian
forces were ratcheting up attacks from Izyum, but Ukrainian troops were holding
their ground. Kharkiv regional prosecutors said two
civilians were killed and seven wounded in the Russian shelling of the village
of Pokotilovka on Thursday. Reuters could not independently verify the report.
Russia denies targeting civilians. President Vladimir Putin calls Russian
actions in Ukraine a "special military operation" that became
necessary as the United States was using the country to threaten Russia and
Moscow had to defend Russian-speaking inhabitants from persecution. Ukraine says it is fighting an imperial-style
land grab and that Putin's claims of persecution are nonsense. Western countries have ramped up weapons
supplies to Ukraine in recent days as the fighting in the east has intensified. More than 40 countries met this week at a
U.S. airbase in Germany and pledged to send heavy arms such as artillery for
what is expected to be a vast battle of opposing armies along a heavily
fortified front line on open, flat terrain. Russia has also reported what it says has
been a series of Ukrainian strikes on Russian regions which border Ukraine and
has warned that such attacks risk significant escalation. On Thursday, two powerful explosions were
heard in the Russian city of Belgorod near the border with Ukraine, two
witnesses told Reuters. It was not immediately clear what caused them and
whether there were any casualties or damage. Ukraine has not directly accepted
responsibility for strikes inside Russia but says the incidents are payback,
while Russia has taken umbrage at statements from NATO member Britain that it
is legitimate for Ukraine to target Russian logistics. "In the West, they are openly calling on
Kyiv to attack Russia including with the use of weapons received from NATO
countries," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told
reporters in Moscow. "I don't advise you to test our patience
further." When Russian forces were driven away from
Kyiv last month, they left behind destroyed suburbs strewn with the bodies of
hundreds of slain civilians in what Western countries call clear evidence of
war crimes. Moscow says, without evidence, that such
signs of suspected atrocities are fake. U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres
struck an emotional note during a visit to the devastated, formerly
Russian-occupied Kyiv suburbs of Borodyanka and Bucha. "Innocent civilians were living in these
buildings, they were paying the highest price for a war which they have not
contributed to at all," Guterres told reporters in Borodyanka,  Guterres met Putin in Moscow on Wednesday for
what proved a failed peace mission. Russia rebuffed Guterres's offer to help
evacuate Mariupol, the besieged port where the war's bloodiest and most
destructive fighting has raged.