 According to PS Kamau who was speaking with the NTV, the long queues and incidents of filling stations running out of fuel have been caused by 'runs', fuelled by motorists who are shopping for petrol in bulk making filling stations run out of their quotas. "This is a classic run, I mean, it is the same if you go to the bank, if we all go to the bank to get our money out, they do not have money just sitting there, it is the same with petrol sta tions, they need to get it from the tank to the petrol stations," PS Kamau expained. "I saw a photo of people in the paper today with jerrycans, I mean when is the last time you saw people buying fuel in jerrycans?"  "I mean it is unusual". When smaller stations run out of gas, most motorists rush to larger players like Shell or Total, which are also quickly overstretched beyond their usual volumes, according to the PS. "If 20 small petrol stations run out of fuel, we all run to larger suppliers, Shell or Total .. " PS Kamau told NTV. At the same time, he pointed out that other factors are at work, such as the infrastructure issue, which means that stations that run out of fuel must wait for delivery trucks from the depot to replenish their supplies. "Now they sell a certain amount every month, now you are selling double .... the infrasctructre they have there is for a certain volume and they have to keep replenishing because their tanks are not connected to the depo by pipes and fuel has to be brought in by trucks," The PS also addressed the delay in subsidy settlement, which has hampered cash flow for some petroleum marketers, preventing them from purchasing new stocks. According to PS Kamau, the payout, introduced last year, to pay oil marketers for the high cuts on their margins to keep recommended pump prices,  will be settled by Tuesday. Delays in the subsidy payout mean that oil marketers either have to tap into their cash reserves or take loans to restock their fuel supplies. The PS also noted that another factor that may have affected supply may be the high price of crude oil in the market that may lock out marketers with smaller purses.