 Gedi, who claims that the video was the brainchild of several unnamed male politicians who wanted to portray her in bad light, says that since the incident, her star on the political stage has only shined brighter. “Some men sat down and paid a lot of money to have that video created so that they can bring me down,” Gedi told the Sunday Standard, “There is a God above and he refused to bring me down. Instead, after that video my star started going up.” The legislator, however, notes that the clip has tormented her, adding that she worries about her children seeing it without being aware of its context. “It has cost me a lot. It is not something that you wish for any woman. Every time I speak about that video I get emotional.” She has previously linked Eldas MP Aden Keynan, Abdihakim Mohamed of Fafi Constituency, Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa and her Kirinyaga counterpart Wangui Ngirici to the tape. Gedi is no-stranger to controversy and set tongues wagging on Thursday, April 14, when she arrived at Parliament buildings with a suitcase she claimed contained evidence linking Deputy President William Ruto to alleged land grabbing cases. She would soon after cause a fracas when she refused to table the documents before the National Assembly in the usual manner, instead opting to read a politically-charged statement. The parliamentarian had, during a session on Tuesday, April 12, claimed DP Ruto had dubiously obtained parcels of land in Trans Nzoia, Wajir, Taita Taveta and Nairobi counties. “It is in the public domain including court orders where one William Ruto grabbed land and I have no apology to make. Give me two days and I will bring the details,” she was heard telling Speaker Justin Muturi. Owing to the fact that Gedi was on record stating that she could come up with evidence that could allegedly incriminate DP Ruto, Speaker Muturi gave her until Thursday at 2:30pm to provide her corroboration before the House. “Remember you are the one who has undertaken to provide the evidence. Ordinarily we don’t allow people to say that they will provide evidence after two days,” said Muturi “If the speaker had allowed me to talk about the whole thing, the Kenyans would have known the truth about who Ruto is. I have nothing personal against Ruto, my concern is to Kenyans,” she now says of the incident. The Woman Rep maintains that she is not done with the case yet, hinting that she will table the alleged evidence soon. “I am still going to table those documents. I have unfinished business,” said Gedi, adding that she has learned to soldier on amid the criticism. “The day I wake up in the morning and do not see my name being discussed, whether negative or positive, then I will feel that there is something wrong… The only tree that is hit with stones is the one that has fruits.”