Kisumu Senatorial aspirant Prof. Tom Ojienda has opined that
the Nairobi gubernatorial contest may be the ultimate balance for the Azimio la
Umoja One Kenya coalition flagbearer Raila Odinga to solve the running mate headache. Prof Ojienda says that the race which has so far attracted
huge contention across the political divide may be the silver bullet to
solve Odinga’s puzzle for the deputy president position which is creating rivalry under the Azimio coalition. He refers to the recent entry by former Nairobi Deputy
Governor Polycarp Igathe who declared his interest in the seat saying that the
coalition consideration for him and Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi would create
a leeway for Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to be considered for the DP position. “The Nairobi gubernatorial race choice of candidates should perhaps
be weighed in against the deputy president position,” Ojienda said during
Citizen TV’s Daybreak Show on Friday. “If we have Igathe and Wanyonyi in this equation, it is
possible for a Kalonzo deputy presidency would be a consideration.” The lawyer who tied his argument to the game of numbers
exhibited by the possible running mates argues that the choice for the second-in-command position is based on ensuring the representation of every member of the coalition
and their region. Kalonzo has in the past been triggered squabbles within the coalition as
he seeks to deputize the ODM leader in the August elections. “The tilting balance is the Nairobi gubernatorial choice and may
play in for Raila because if you have a Mt Kenya governor, as we now have
Igathe, that will play in as a choice and will give the second in command slot
to Kalonzo; it is a possibility,” he explained. Despite Wiper Secretary General Dan Maanzo who was also on
the platform insisting that a Kalonzo running mate would be a major boost for
Odinga due to the huge block of votes tied to him, Ojienda said that it is still a tough decision for Azimio. Ojienda cites key options for consideration among them Agriculture
CS Peter Munya and NARC-Kenya leader Martha
Karua saying that since they are all from the vote-rich Mount Kenya region, they hold huge bargaining power in the coalition. “Munya will also be an interesting choice as well in terms of
balance between Mt Kenya and lower Eastern because we have never had a Meru in
number two before and would perhaps, cause excitement in the region,” the
professor says. At the same time, Ojienda asserts that Odinga is on the edge
with a running mate choice of Kalonzo and either Munya or Karua in his camp and
if he will not be careful, he may not be able to bag the votes in the Central
region or from the lower Eastern region. “It is not easy to be Baba, it is a tricky and slippery
choice for him because, without Kalonzo Musyoka, the Kamba nation will not vote
for Azimio, that is a tough call,” he said. “Whichever candidate (from Azimio or Kenya Kwanza) makes a
choice of a DP from Mt Kenya is likely to run away with the vote from the
region and that is the reality. If Raila Odinga does not choose a running mate
from Mt Kenya, it is going to be difficult to make the Mt Kenya vote but it is
in the same argument that is if you don’t choose a DP from lower eastern or Eastern,
you lose that vote.” While comparing the 26 parties under Azimio to the 12 parties in the Kenya Kwanza coalition
led by Deputy President William Ruto, Ojienda said that it was more difficult for
Odinga to appease the needs of his huge camp compared to their opponents.  Consequently, Ojienda called on supporters of Azimio to give
enough time for the coalition leadership to issue the way forward.