Central
Organisation of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary General Francis Atwoli has
demanded that Deputy President William Ruto deny United Democratic Alliance (UDA)
party nomination tickets to politicians allegedly behind the attack on Raila
Odinga and his entourage in Uasin Gishu County on Friday. This
comes after the DP, earlier on Saturday, apologized to Odinga following the
incident which saw his chopper and motorcade pelted with stones. The DP condemned the attack while vowing
to hold to account any member of his party found culpable of orchestrating the
said attack. Atwoli
is however of the opinion that the incident was premeditated and that its
organisers are allegedly already known to the public. As
such, Atwoli says, the DP should stop making empty threats and take action by
severing political ties with the so-called brains behind the attack. Atwoli
lay blame on Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Soy Member of Parliament Caleb
Kositany whom he said did not attempt to contain the situation despite it
happening in their stronghold. “I want to ask William Ruto, if he is so
serious that action would be taken against any UDA politician found to be
behind the violence then let me give him names.  He should not wait
because the names are known,” Atwoli said on Saturday. “He
(Ruto) should have apologised for the MP and governor who were present but did
not take any action to stop the attack. I want to see him denying them the UDA
ticket. That is when I will know that he was not part of the scheme.” Atwoli
likewise urged Kenyans to avoid offering their support to politicians who might
use them to instigate political violence, underscoring that all persons eyeing
elective seats should be able to preach their agendas in any part of the
country, without having to worry about outside interference. “I
want to warn Kenyan politicians that they should be very careful, so many other
countries are yearning for peace and peace is the key for everything. You
better sleep hungry in a peaceful country We should not zone areas
politically,” he said. The
Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) has since summoned MP Kositany,
his Kapseret counterpart Oscar Sudi and Uasin Gishu County Assembly Speaker
David Kiplagat over the chaos witnessed at the burial of the late businessman
Jackson Kibor. According
to the DCI, the chaos that was unleashed during the burial at Kabenes village
led to the damage of Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party presidential
flagbearer Raila Odinga’s helicopter. The
DCI, in a statement released on Saturday evening, said preliminary
investigations had revealed that the three leaders allegedly organized and coordinated
the violence that was witnessed. MPs Kositany, Sudi, and Speaker Kiplagat are hence expected
to appear before the Rift Valley DCI boss on Sunday in the morning.  The National Police Service (NPS) also earlier announced that
17 people were arrested following the incident.