 During the launch of the Form One placement exercise on Monday, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha noted that 4,000 of these will come from informal settlements. “This year, the Government of H.E. Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta will make available 9,000 more scholarships. Out of these 4,000 beneficiaries will be drawn from the slums,” said Prof. Magoha. “The aim will be to enable many of the learners to break the ceiling and liberate their families from dehumanizing urban poverty.” The CS also commended other institutions who have been on the forefront in awarding scholarships and bursaries, further urging them to cover non-tuition costs for their beneficiaries’ studies. “For boarding school well-wishers and philanthropists are encouraged to consider covering costs of other non-tuition related expenses such as school uniforms and personal effects for children who are needy,” he stated. While assuring that the government will ensure 100% transition to secondary school, Magoha said all the 1,225,502 candidates who sat the exams had been placed in 9,200 public schools countrywide. “We will continue working with the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government to facilitate the enrollment of every child in secondary school to actualize the 100 per cent transition,” he said. “National administration officers (NGAO) will work with county and sub-county education officials to ensure that no child is locked out of secondary education.” The new Form One students are set to report to their respective schools beginning May 3. Out of last year’s class, ​​38,797 candidates have been admitted to National Schools while 214,960 have been placed in Extra-County schools. Magoha indicated that 2,045 students will go to special needs schools, with 218, 456 reporting County Schools and 9,128 in refugee camps. At the same time, 726,311 candidates will be reporting to sub-county schools. To check the placement status of candidates, one needs to send the candidate’s index number to 22263, after which they will receive a text message with admission instructions for the schools they have been admitted into. Additionally, joining instructions for schools of all categories can be accessed through an online portal on the education ministry website (www.education.go.ke/online-services/form-one-selection).