The
Senate confirmed President Joe Biden's Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown
Jackson on Thursday in a historic vote that paves the way for her to become the
first Black woman to serve on the highest court in the nation. The
confirmation represents a significant victory for Democrats, which they can
tout as bipartisan, and a way for the President to deliver on a campaign
promise at a time when the US faces a number of challenges at home and abroad,
including soaring inflation and the crisis in Ukraine. It
also marks a major milestone for the Supreme Court and the federal judiciary,
although Jackson's confirmation won't change the ideological balance of the court. Vice
President Kamala Harris, the first Black woman to serve as vice president,
presided over the chamber during the historic vote in her capacity as president
of the Senate. Jackson
will be sworn in after Justice Stephen Breyer retires sometime this summer. Ahead
of the final vote, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer called the moment a
"joyous, momentous, groundbreaking day." Schumer
went on to say, "In the 233-year history of the Supreme Court, never,
never has a Black woman held the title of Justice. Ketanji Brown Jackson will
be the first and I believe the first of more to come." Biden
had said during his 2020 presidential campaign that he was committed to nominating a Black woman to the
Supreme Court if elected. At
one point during her Senate confirmation hearings, Jackson became visibly
emotional and could be seen wiping away tears as Democratic Sen. Cory Booker of
New Jersey, who is one of only three Black senators, talked about her path to the
nomination and the obstacles she has had to overcome. "My
parents grew up in a time in this country in which Black children and White
children were not allowed to go to school together," Jackson told Booker
after the senator asked what values her parents had impressed upon her.
"They taught me hard work. They taught me perseverance. They taught me
that anything is possible in this great country." Confirmation
process The
nomination cleared a key hurdle earlier Thursday when the Senate took a
procedural vote to limit debate and break a filibuster, setting up the final
confirmation vote. Throughout
the Senate vetting process, Senate Democrats have praised Jackson as an
exceptionally qualified, trail-blazing nominee whose depth and breadth of
experience, including as a federal public defender, would add a valuable and
unique perspective to the bench. Jackson
was also a commissioner on the US Sentencing Commission and served on the
federal district court in DC, as an appointee of former President Barack Obama,
before Biden elevated her to the DC Circuit last year. Confirmation
hearings featured sharp and critical questioning from Republicans as many
attempted to portray Jackson as weak on crime and, in a highly-charged line of
attack, too lenient in sentencing child pornography cases. Jackson and
Democrats forcefully pushed back on the accusations. Jackson
stressed her concern for public safety and the rule of law, as a judge and an
American. And she argued that she approaches her work in an impartial way and
that personal opinions do not play a role. Republicans
called for civility and respect during the confirmation hearings, arguing that
Democrats did not extend that to Brett Kavanaugh during his vetting process
before the Senate. Kavanaugh faced a sexual assault allegation, which he
vehemently denied. Democrats,
however, argued that Republicans crossed a line by distorting Jackson's record,
particularly with respect to sentencing in child pornography-related cases. A CNN review of the material in question shows that
Jackson mostly followed common judicial sentencing practices in these kinds of
cases. Jackson
wins GOP support In
announcing that they would support the nomination, Murkowski and Collins both
expressed concern over what they described as the politicization of the Supreme
Court confirmation process. Murkowski
said that she rejects "the corrosive politicization of the review process
for Supreme Court nominees, which, on both sides of the aisle, is growing worse
and more detached from reality by the year" in her statement. Collins
said in her statement, "No matter where you fall on the ideological
spectrum, anyone who has watched several of the last Supreme Court confirmation
hearings would reach the conclusion that the process is broken." "It
used to be common for Senators to give the President, regardless of political
party, considerable deference in the choice of a nominee," Collins said.  The
Maine Republican said that approach "instilled confidence in the independence
and the integrity of the judiciary and helped keep the Court above the
political fray," adding, "this is the approach that I plan to
continue to use for Supreme Court nominations because it runs counter to the
disturbing trend of politicizing the judicial nomination process."