 Wanjigi said in Murang'a on Saturday that National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi's decision to join the Kenya Kwanza alliance means he is now the undisputed Mt Kenya presidential candidate. According to the billionaire businessman, he represents 99 percent of Kenyans who have been disenfranchised by their leaders, who are now conducting tribal business at the expense of their people. “These are just tribal conglomerates of people doing transactional politics at the behest of their communities,”  Wanjigi said. “76 percent of young people , I’m your insurgent, I do not need tribal alliances like we have seen today,” According to Wanjigi, who claims he is not afraid of being perceived as a lone ranger, he is confident that Kenyans seeking a change in leadership will support his State House bid. “There are people who have called us lone rangers, but Robin Hood was a lone ranger but he had enough people, Jesus was viewed as a lone ranger,” he added. His remarks come on the heels of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi's Democratic Party (DP) joining the Kenya Kwanza coalition. Speaker Muturi on Saturday joined Kenya Kwanza co-principals Deputy President William Ruto, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula in an official signing of the coalition agreement at a Karen hotel. DP Ruto lauded Muturi’s move terming the Democratic Party, which was founded by former president Mwai Kibaki, as a landmark for economy-centered politics. Democratic Party (DP) was started by Kenya's first economist Mwai Kibaki and third president whose forte has always been the economy,” Ruto said. “We are very proud that we are joined by DP which has a history in our republic and the party that has history about our economy which is associated with our third president, the finest economist we ever had in Kenya, Mwai Kibaki.” Ruto similarly appreciated the Democratic Party for what he referred to as its firm stature on people-based politics, terming this as the very reason for the formation of the Kenya Kwanza team. He exuded confidence that with Muturi’s team in the Kenya Kwanza camp, they would most definitely now trounce their opponents in the forthcoming elections. 