Wiper Democratic Movement party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has
dismissed talk of being unhappy in the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party ahead of the August political showdown. In a rejoinder to Deputy President William
Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza brigade that was in Mwingi wooing Musyoka to their
side, the former Vice President said his decision to back ODM leader Raila Odinga’s
fifth presidential bid was resolute. Kalonzo appealed to the populous Mt. Kenya
region to back Odinga’s bid, terming himself and President Uhuru Kenyatta as guarantors
of an all-inclusive Odinga presidency. The Wiper boss was in Gatanga constituency,
Murang’a County, on Friday on a vote-hunting mission for the Azimio la Umoja
One Kenya coalition party and its flagbearer Odinga. With critics questioning his absence in Odinga’s
campaign entourage, two weeks after the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya team was
unveiled, Kalonzo reiterated his support for the ODM party chief’s presidential
bid. “Nilisema kwa sababu ya Kenya hii, nitamuunga
mkono Raila kwa mara ya tatu, kwa sababu Kenya hii ina maana kuliko mtu binafsi,”
he stated. Kalonzo has been on the Kenya Kwanza
alliance’s radar, with DP Ruto touring his Mwingi backyard on a charm
offensive, with an eye on the Ukambani vote basket ahead of the August State House
race. “Kama tunataka demokrasia, siku ambayo Ruto
alikubali kuwa mbeba bendera ya UDA, na yeye sasa ni deputy president wa
Jubilee, the next sentence angesema ni ili tuwe na proper conduct ya uchaguzi,
nimejiuzulu kama deputy president wa Uhuru,” Kalonzo said. The populous Mt. Kenya region has been the
epicentre of high voltage politics, with President Kenyatta pushing for Odinga
as his preferred successor. DP Ruto has since lay claim to the president’s
political backyard and urged the electorate to reject the Head of State’s choice. “Ndiyo nimekuja watu wa Murang’a kuwaambia
mimi ni Kalonzo yule yule nilimsaidia Kibaki…naomba sasa tumsaidie huyu Raila,
na hata kama haupendi Raila, naomba umpigie kura kwa sababu Kalonzo yuko pale,”
said Kalonzo. Kalonzo also defended President Kenyatta’s
political stand and his decision not to back DP Ruto in the August polls.  “Lakini watu wa Mt. Kenya, I am here to tell
you, kwa unyenyekevu, rudisheni roho zenu chini ili tuokoe Kenya…sio Uhuru mnaokoa,
mnaokoa Kenya…msiangazie watu binafsi, ndiyo nikasema nitamsaidia ndugu yangu Uhuru,
liwe liwalo, come rain or shine, to give this country a proper legacy,” he
said.