The late former President Mwai Kibaki will on
Saturday receive a 19-gun salute as his body is lowered to the grave during his
State funeral in Othaya, Nyeri County. But just what does the 19-gun salute
symbolize? And why is Kibaki not getting the 21-gun salute instead, anyway? For starters, Kibaki becomes just the third
Kenyan to ever be accorded a State funeral with full civilian and military
ceremonial honours; after his predecessors Mzee Jomo Kenyatta in 1978 and
Daniel arap Moi in 2020. However, while Kibaki will get a 19-gun
salute just like Moi before him, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s send-off was marked
with a 21-gun salute. The difference in the gun salutes is because
Mzee Kenyatta died while still occupying the office of Commander-in-Chief of
the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), as opposed to Moi and Kibaki who died after ending
their tenures. However, experts also tell Citizen Digital
that both Moi and Kibaki could have received the 21-gun salute as well had President
Uhuru Kenyatta ordered that they be buried in military uniform for their times
as Commanders-in-Chief as well. A State funeral is a public ceremony observing strict rules of protocol held to
honour Heads of State or other people of national significance. Besides Kenyatta, Moi and
now Kibaki, there are 3 other Kenyan non-presidents who were also accorded
State funerals, but without military honours, namely; former Vice President
Kijana Wamalwa, Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Wangari Maathai, and former First
Lady Lucy Kibaki. To qualify for a State funeral, one has
to be a sitting or retired Head of State, or Chief of Defense Forces. Any other person, such as in the case
of Maathai, Wamalwa, and Mama Lucy, however, has to have the State send-off
authorized by the Defence Council. Wamalwa, Kenya's eighth vice president,
was accorded a State burial on September 6, 2003 and although the government
had offered to bury him at Heroes Corner in Uhuru Gardens, Nairobi, he was
buried at his Milimani home in Kitale. Maathai’s funeral service was held at
Uhuru Park, on October 7, 2011, and she was later cremated according to her
will and the ashes interred at the Wangari Maathai Institute of Peace and
Environment Studies at the University of Nairobi’s Kabete campus.  Kibaki’s wife, Lucy, was buried on 7th
May 2016, at her home in Othaya, where the former Commander-in-Chief will also
be laid to rest.