Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr. Fred Matiang’i
has raised concern over the alleged mushrooming of persons facing economic
crime charges in the long list of aspirants eyeing elective seats in Parliament
and county assemblies. CS Matiang’i made the sentiments following
alleged intelligence reports that estimated that close to 40 per cent of the
suspected criminals and their accomplices would successfully be part of the next
government once the August polls are set and done. “If we are not careful as Kenyans, by the
time we are done with this electoral cycle, we would’ve laundered criminals
into our elective institutions– even up to about 40 per cent,” he said when he
met bishops and senior clergy of the Anglican Church in Nairobi on Tuesday. “These include money launderers, “wash wash”
players, drug dealers and others because they're the only ones who can access
that amount of money.” Once these rogue elements ingrain themselves
into the government, the CS warned, the country will likely take a step back in
its ongoing war against corruption, noting that the said persons will likely
back laws that favour the thriving of criminal entities. Matiang’i went on to fault the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for its alleged failure to tighten
up regulations on conducting political campaigns by aspirants, noting that this
was a serious threat to securing the General Election. The CS also chimed in on the perennial
insecurity cases facing Marsabit County, promising that the government will
carry out a forceful security operation to secure the region. He blamed the county’s leadership for being
dishonest and failing to address cases of insecurity in the region even after
being given a 30-day ultimatum to do so, which he says expired weeks ago. “It actually reminds you of the situation of
Rwanda, the attitude that you hear between communities. It is totally senseless
and as you say none of those people is innocent. We are left with only one
option for Marsabit and we will exercise that option,” he said. He likewise warned the county’s leadership
not to interfere with the government’s plan to bring back peace in the troubled
area. “No one should blame the government because
we are going to do what we must do to secure that place and the population of
our people and it is not going to be fun,” said the CS. He similarly urged the church leaders to
sensitize their followers on the importance of electing trustworthy
leaders during the polls. On his part, ICT CS Joe Mucheru who also spoke
at the event, noted that his ministry was working in tandem with the elections
authority to ensure that all polling stations were connected with reliable 3G
networks which will be used in transmitting election results to the national
tallying centre.  CS Mucheru also dismissed rumours that the
government was planning to tamper with the presidential election results.