 Mucheru says the State is not in any way going to be involved in the appointment of moderators in the Local Language Media and Gubernatorial, Senatorial and Women Representative Debates ahead of the upcoming August General Election. “The Media Council and all these media affiliated organisations came to me and said ‘we have appointed these people to the taskforce’. Who am I to say no? I could not, because I know they would write again and say ‘the minister has refused,” the CS said on Tuesday. He was addressing journalists during the Connected Kenya Summit in Diani, Kwale County, where he also termed the uproar by media owners and practitioners over the appointment as unnecessary. The Kenya Editors Guild (KEG) had earlier protested the move, terming the appointment Gazetted on April 8, 2022, as unlawful and a violation of the independence of the media. "The Gazette Notice is unconstitutional, illegal and untenable in the context of the democratic discourse for the following reasons: The involvement of the Cabinet Secretary on issues of the news media through the Gazette Notice amounts to control and interference with the Independence of the Media. This explicitly violates Article 34(2)," read a statement issued on Monday. According to the guild, the government was overstepping as the work of the Technical Working Committee will significantly impact the workings of media houses. KEG president Churchill Otieno added: "Editorial work, especially during an election, is the primary and inviolable duty of the news media in a democratic society. State officers and state agencies have absolutely no role in this, and must reject any temptation to interfere, as that would be an invitation to engage in illegalities." The technical working committee comprises Rose Wakio, Martin Masai, Vincent Ateya, Joel Karanja, Stephen Kangongo and Tom Mboya, among others. It has been tasked with assessing the ability of community and vernacular media to execute the debates starting April. It is also required to work with local media and community in organizing debates and capacity building of local journalists. The Media Owners Association, the Media Council of Kenya and the Kenya Editors’ Guild have already set up a joint secretariat on election debates, complete with workstreams.