The United States will reopen its embassy in Ukraine soon,
its top diplomat said on Monday after he and the U.S. defense secretary visited
Kyiv, promising more military aid and hailing the fight against Russia's
invasion. Both Secretary of State Antony Blinken and
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said the fact that they were able to come to
Ukraine's capital was proof of its tenacity in forcing Moscow to abandon an
assault on Kyiv last month. "What you've done in repelling the
Russians in the battle of Kyiv is extraordinary and inspiring quite frankly to
the rest of the world," Austin told President Volodymyr Zelenskiy at a
meeting overnight after a train journey from Poland. "We are here to
support you in any way possible." Blinken hailed Ukraine's success "in
pushing back this horrific Russian aggression." "In terms of Russia’s war aims, Russia
has already failed and Ukraine has already succeeded," Blinken told a
briefing in Poland on their way back. Austin said: "“We want to see Russia
weakened to the degree that it can’t do the kinds of things that it has done in
invading Ukraine." U.S. officials said Austin and Blinken pledged
new assistance worth $713 million for Ukraine and other countries in the
region. An extra $322 million in military aid for Ukraine would take the total
U.S. security assistance since the invasion to about $3.7 billion, one official
said. It would help Ukraine's armed forces transition to more advanced weapons
and air defence systems that were essentially NATO-compatible, the official
added. Russia's ambassador in Washington said Moscow
had sent a diplomatic note demanding a halt to U.S. arms shipments to Ukraine. Russia has consistently denied intending to
overthrow Ukraine's government. Western countries say that was its objective
from the outset but it failed in the face of Ukrainian resistance. Just weeks ago, Kyiv was a frontline city
under curfew and bombardment, with tens of thousands of Russian troops massing
on its northern outskirts and residents sheltering from artillery in its metro
stations. Today, the nearest Russian troops are hundreds
of miles away, normal life is returning to the capital, Western leaders have
been visiting and countries are reopening their embassies. Blinken said U.S. diplomats would first return
to the western city of Lviv and should be back in Kyiv within weeks. The White
House announced President Joe Biden had nominated Bridget Brink, now U.S.
ambassador in Slovakia, to be the new envoy to Kyiv. The post has been vacant
for nearly three years. But despite Ukraine having repelled the
assault on Kyiv, the war is far from over. Russia has regrouped its forces and
sent more troops into eastern Ukraine. Last week it launched a massive assault
there in an attempt to capture eastern provinces known as the Donbas. Five railway stations came under fire in
western and central Ukraine on Monday and there were an unspecified number of
casualties, Ukrainian television quoted state-run Ukrainian Railways as saying.
Oleksander Kamyshin, the company's chief, said the attacks took place in the
space of an hour. All of the country was placed under an
unusually long air raid warning for two hours on Monday morning. Across the border in Russia's Bryansk region
near northeastern Ukraine, authorities were battling a huge blaze at a fuel
depot. Neither side publicly linked the fire to the
war, but Russia had accused Ukraine of a helicopter attack in that area last
week. Unverified images on the internet showed a sudden blast, and other images
show blazes in two separate locations simultaneously. In the past, Ukraine has
declined to comment or denied accusations of cross border strikes. Russian President Vladimir Putin said Moscow
had thwarted an attempt to assassinate a high-profile Russian journalist by
Ukrainian agents backed by the West. The FSB security service said it had
arrested a group planning to kill Vladimir Solovyev, host of a talk show on
Russia's main state television station and one of the most prominent voices in
support of the invasion. Ukraine's State Security Service denied on
Monday having any plans to kill Solovyev. Before the U.S. officials' visit, Ukraine had
drawn up a list of weapons urgently needed from the United States, such as
anti-missile systems, anti-aircraft systems, armoured vehicles and tanks,
Zelenskiy aide Igor Zhovkva told NBC News on Sunday. In a daily update on the conflict, Britain's
defence ministry said Russia had made only minor advances in parts of Donbas. "Without sufficient logistical and combat
support enablers in place, Russia has yet to achieve a significant
breakthrough," it said. The relative calm in Kyiv is a contrast with
the south and east of the country, where the war grinds on relentlessly. Some 320 km (200 miles) southeast of Kyiv,
Russian missile strikes on an oil refinery and power plant in Kremenchuk killed
one person and wounded seven, the governor of the Poltava region said. Moscow
said it had destroyed oil production facilities. Russia also fired rockets at two towns in the
central Vinnytsia region, causing an unspecified number of deaths and injuries,
regional Governor Serhiy Borzov reported. Ukraine's general staff described Russian
shelling and assaults along most of the front in the east, including missile
and bomb attacks on a huge steel works in Mariupol where the last Ukrainian
defenders are holed up in a city destroyed during two months of Russian siege
and bombardment. Moscow said it was opening a humanitarian corridor to let
civilians out of the plant; Kyiv said no agreement had been reached. Moscow, which describes its actions in Ukraine
as a "special military operation", denies targeting civilians.