The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) now says it
has recovered property worth Ksh.30 billion, all acquired by individuals as
proceeds of graft. The anti-graft body
reclaimed land that was irregularly
allocated to powerful individuals through collusion with corrupt government
officials in the lands ministry. EACC has listed at least 14 properties registered under Treasury
valued at Ksh.603 million that has been recovered. Additionally, the commission
has recovered a parcel of land belonging to the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock
Research Organization (KALRO) worth over Ksh.2 billion. The 227 hectares
piece of land in Naivasha next to Delamere estates was meant for potato
research and animal husbandry and had fraudulently been allocated to shadowy individuals.
But with EACC pursuing repossession of the land, the matter was settled out of
court and the titles surrendered to the government. In Kisumu, Kenya Railways had lost 69 hectares parcel of
land estimated at nearly Ksh.2 billion. The land located next to the port of Kisumu
was equally settled out of court and titles surrendered as EACC stepped up
surveillance on illegally acquired government property. The commission is chasing after 21 hectares piece of land
belonging to the metrological department valued at Ksh.5 billion. The land
located on Mombasa Road behind Panari Hotel is said to have been allocated to a
family residing in the United Kingdom. The title was repossessed and being processed
by the lands ministry. Likewise, the Kenya School of Government had lost its three
plots to Julie Nyawira Mathenge. But the court established that former Land
Commissioners Wilson Gachanja and James Raymond Nyaga had irregularly apportioned
the land to a private citizen. Other properties recovered include 14 properties belonging
to Uasin Gishu County valued at Ksh.64 million, a parcel of land worth Ksh.30
million registered under Nakuru County, and another one belonging to Kisumu County
estimated at Ksh.10 million, and three properties valued at Ksh.8 million belonging
to Bomet County. EACCc handed over 39 title deeds to President Uhuru Kenyatta
at State House on Monday, with EACC indicating 24 other parcels of land have
been recovered and their title deeds are being processed. Meanwhile, EACC also handed over Ksh.450 million being proceeds
of graft stashed in Jersey Island by former Kenya Power Managing Director
Samuel Gichuru and former Finance Minister Chirs Okemo.  The repatriation of
the cash comes after Kenya signed an asset and recovery agreement with jersey
authorities