Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and
former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno have dismissed claims that the late former President
Mwai Kibaki was a fence sitter who maintained a neutral stance on a number of
high-profile political debates. According to Kagwe, who spoke on Citizen TV’s
JKLive show, Kibaki only engaged in debates that had the potential of bettering
the nation. As such, the CS continued, Kibaki steered
clear of discussions which he deemed as being non-beneficial to the affairs of
Kenya. Kagwe, who served as Mukurweini MP
during the first five years of Kibaki’s presidency, went on to say that the
late former Head of State had a flair for tolerance, which he says is vital for
any aspiring leader and more so for persons serving in the country's top seat. “Kibaki operated on a framework where he
didn’t have to say something about everything when it was not necessary.
 There are those who believe that as long as there is a topic being
discussed you must have an opinion about it, and I think that is what it was
and his whole issue of tolerance,” Kagwe said. “Tolerance is one of the requirements in
leadership. If you don’t have it you have to cultivate it. For him he didn’t
have to cultivate it, he had it. He had a natural level of tolerance and it was
a gift. It is something that he had; that aspect of humility and tolerance,
these are the ingredients that make real leaders.” His sentiments were shared by Otieno, who
noted that Kibaki urged the politicians serving under his administration to
avoid controversial decisions and only make critical ones that would
positively alter Kenya's trajectory. According to Otieno, Kibaki would waste no
time in coming up with solutions when politicians tabled problems and
discussions before him that, once solved, would have the potential of reforming
the country's economic sector. “It is the quality of the decision that
Kibaki was interested in and if he did not see the outcome of benefit to the
republic, he would just ignore your debate and that did not make him a fence
sitter,” he said.  “You wouldn’t find Kibaki talking about
somebody. He was only interested in the objective of the republic, but if you
talk about personalities he would not get involved.”