The Independent
Electoral and Boundaries
Commission (IEBC) has ordered all political parties participating in the
upcoming General Election to adhere to the two-thirds gender rule in all the
required elective posts. While referring to a
previous petition filed in 2017 that called for gender balance for Members of
Parliament and the Senate, the commission said the same principle would be applied in the nominations and the August polls. “The import of the
Judgement is that all
Political Parties take measures to ensure the actualisation of the two-thirds
gender principle during nominations for the 290 Constituency based elective
seats for Members of the National Assembly and
the 47 County-based elective positions for Members of the Senate,” IEBC chair
Wafula Chebukati said in a statement. Chebukati went
further to outline the requirements that parties should meet as they seek to present the lists of the
nominated candidates. For MPs, where the
constitutional requirement calls for 290 members in a given constituency, Chebukati
noted that not more than 193
candidates can be of the same gender. On the same note,
for the Senate position, Chebukati stated that in a list representing the 47 counties countrywide, a party
should not field more than 31 candidates of the same gender. Consequently, the
IEBC chair said the same threshold would be applied for parties that present
less than 290 members. “In the
event, a Political Party presents a list including less than 290 candidates for
Constituency based elective positions, the two-thirds gender principle will
still apply for the number of names presented,” Cheukati stated. “In the
event, a political party presents a list including less than 47 candidates for
County-based elective positions for Members of Senate, the two-thirds gender
principle will still apply for the number of names presented.” The Commission
similarly cautioned political parties against flouting the requirements saying that the parties risk the rejection
of their document. The IEBC Chair said the commission would communicate the rejection in writing to the Political
Party after which a revised list would be expected within two days. He,
however, noted
that any party that fails to comply with the guidelines risks having their
candidates barred from
participating in the polls come August. “The Commission
will provide the Political Party an opportunity to revise the list and
re-submit the revised list to the Commission within 48 hours of receipt of
communication from the Commission,” he explained.  He added: “Do
note that a revised list that does not comply with the two-thirds gender
principle, will be rejected in its totality and all candidates on the list
cannot stand for election on August 9th 2022.”