Former
Deputy President William Ruto’s Chief of Staff Maryanne
Chebet Kitany now says that she is still open to marriage despite two broken past unions. According to Kitany, who will contest for Aldai’s
parliamentary seat under a UDA ticket at the August polls, her current
interests lie in the region's politics but should she find another chance at
love, she will not shy away from taking it. “I
am still young and full of energy for myself and the people of Aldai. For sure,
no one knows what the future holds. Given an opportunity, I will give it a
shot. But for now, let us cross the bridge when we get there,” Kitany told the
Nation. Kitany
went on to say that it takes time for women to remarry owing to what she termed
as tje female gender being more committed to their unions and children they sire during
their matrimonies, as compared to men. “Having
a failed marriage is the worst thing that can ever happen to anyone, including
men. But it hurts more for a woman because a man can easily remarry. I was so
committed to my two marriages but things didn’t work out, not for my own
making, but for circumstances beyond my control,” she said. Prior
to her more publicly documented failed marriage with Meru Senator Mithika
Linturi, Kitany was once married to another man whom she met while working at
KCB bank in her much younger years. “While working at
KCB, I met a guy who was also working there who really confused my head. We got
married and I got my first child while still at Kenyatta University. My second
born came six years later,” she said. “However,
I parted ways with him after 13 years. I stayed single for seven years before I
met Meru Senator Mithika Linturi. Four years down the line, there was a stormy
divorce.” Her
failed marriages, Kitany added, have unfortunately been used to paint her in a
bad light by her political rivals such as incumbent Aldai MP Cornelly Serem,
whom she floored in recent UDA nominations, but this never deterred her from
pursuing her political aspirations. “The
incumbent was using my marriage issues as a campaign tool against me. He was
saying that I have been married to nine men but the fortunate thing is that his
disinformation did not work in his favour because the people knew my capability
and that is why I trounced him,” she said.  “I am motivated
to be the Aldai MP not because I am seeking employment, but I want to make the
constituency better. I just want to serve my people and make a mark in their
lives in the best way I can and in the process catapult my constituency to
recognition.”