The
Kenya Kwanza Alliance has received a boost after nine political parties on Tuesday
inked a coalition agreement with the Deputy President William Ruto-aligned
outfit. The
nine parties, Chama Cha Kazi, Communist Party of Kenya, Devolution Party,
Economic Freedom Party, Farmers Party, The Service Party, Tujibebe Wakenya Party
and Umoja Maendeleo Party, signed the agreement in a ceremony held at Ngong
Race Course in Nairobi. Kenya
Kwanza co-principles DP Ruto, ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya
counterpart Moses Wetangula attended the function. According
to DP Ruto, the deal signals the formation of a formidable political outfit
that will clinch power at the August General Election and take Kenya to the
next level. “There
are many coalitions in town but this is a coalition with a difference. The
alliance we put together today is the alliance of the free, the alliance of the
willing,” DP Ruto said. “It
is an alliance of the people, by the people for the people that is keen on
transforming the economy of our country; starting with those at the lower
echelons of society. It reconfigures the political foundation of Kenya,
bringing back the integrity of every leader and their signature.” In
a perceived toned down attack on the Raila Odinga-led Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition party, Mudavadi alluded that the Kenya Kwanza alliance was united and stable
ahead of the polls. Troubles have been rocking the Raila Odinga-led outfit
lately, with the latest being Monday’s case where four parties petitioned the Registrar of Political Parties
wanting the registration of the coalition halted immediately. “We
talked about a trust deficit sometime back but it seems people do not learn
much about what we are saying because right now what we are seeing somewhere
else is that there is a resurrection of that trust deficit,” said Mudavadi. Wetangula,
on his part, reiterated that the coalition will strive to change the fortunes
of Kenya and its citizens alike should it form the next government once the
polls are set and done.  “We
want to reduce our public debt and we want to remove impunity from our
leadership. We want a Kenya where everybody lives with dignity and everybody
demands and gets respect. That is the Kenya we are creating today,” said
Wetangula.