Jubilee
Secretary General Jeremiah Kioni now says that the outfit does not expect any
other party under the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance Party to field a
candidate for Nairobi County’s governorship seat once the President Uhuru
Kenyatta-led outfit settles on its candidate for the same. His
sentiments follow multiple news reports on Tuesday evening claiming that the
party has settled on former Equity Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Polycarp
Igathe as its candidate for City Hall's corner office. Despite
playing coy on whether Igathe has indeed been identified as Jubilee’s candidate
for Nairobi’s governorship, Kioni admitted that, in any scenario, once the
party settles on a contender it will have to hold corresponding talks with ODM. Current
Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi has emerged as a possible frontrunner for the city’s
top seat on the Raila Odinga-led ODM party. “If we
have a Jubilee candidate for the position of governor we will not expect
another of our political parties in Azimio to field into a similar place
because if we split the votes we give the advantage to our opponents,” Kioni said
on Citizen TV’s NewsNight show on Tuesday. “So we
will have to negotiate and agree with ODM as to what becomes of Wanyonyi. The
good thing about this negotiation is that there are many opportunities
available and it is good to encourage aspirants to approach this with an open mind.” Kioni
also refuted allegations that Jubilee’s direct nomination candidates are solely
determined by the party boss, President Kenyatta. He made
the utterances after he alluded that he has yet to receive any formal
communication from Jubilee pertaining to Igathe being identified as the party’s
preferred candidate in the race to City Hall. “I am not
saying that I am not aware but the official communication will be done by the
party in due time. It is not a dictatorship. It is that the official
communication may be out (in the media) but it has not come to the party per
say but once it does we will be able to say more,” said Kioni. He went on to say that direct nominations at
the party are only made after holding consensus talks between aspirants eyeing
similar positions. According to Kioni, it is the party’s
obligation to bring the interested parties to the table after which they will
deliberate amongst themselves on the most suitable candidate to contest for any
elective seat. “We have
a lot of methods we have used but what is important is that it is a consensus
and this is what we have done for the past three weeks. This is much better
than the chaotic primaries we have had before and what is being done by other
parties,” he said.  Kioni
likewise dismissed claims that by handing direct nominations, the party was
forcing candidates on constituents without consulting them, noting that
consensus talks have reduced the number of persons disputing decisions being
made at the party.