A British lawmaker who had been suspended
from Prime Minister Boris Johnson's Conservative Party said on Saturday he had
resigned after admitting he twice viewed pornography on his phone in the House
of Commons "in a moment of madness. The Conservatives suspended Neil Parish on
Friday after he reported himself to parliament's standards commissioner. Parish resigned on Saturday, having
previously said he would continue as a member of parliament while an
investigation was carried out. "In the end, I could see that the furore
and the damage I was causing my family and my constituency association, it just
wasn't worth carrying on," a tearful Parish told the BBC in an interview
on Saturday. Parish, a farmer, said the first time he had
viewed the explicit material he had stumbled across it by accident when looking
for tractors on a website with a similar name and had then "watched it for
a bit which I shouldn't have done.” "But my crime, biggest crime is that on
another occasion I went in a second time and that was deliberate. That was
sitting waiting to vote on the side of the chamber." Asked what had been going through his mind,
he described it as "a moment of madness.” Earlier this week British media had reported
that a female minister said she had seen a male colleague viewing pornographic
material while sitting beside her in the Commons chamber and the same lawmaker
watching pornography during a committee hearing. "I was not proud of what I was
doing," Parish said, adding that he had not intended those around him
would see it. "I am not going to defend what I did.
What I did was absolutely, totally wrong ... I think I must have taken complete
leave of my senses." In an interview with The Times newspaper
published before his resignation, Parish's wife said she was not aware of her
husband having done anything similar before and that her husband was "a
lovely person." "It was all very embarrassing," the
newspaper quoted Sue Parish as saying. "My breath was taken away,
frankly."