 Mr. Odinga on Sunday told Kenyans living in Washington DC during a town hall meeting, that he was even aware of the supposed plan ahead of businessman Jackson Kibor’s burial. Describing the ordeal as “vicious” and “nasty”, the presidential hopeful said that the attack was orchestrated by his political nemeses. “Some goons were hired and they actually wanted to kill us… The attack was vicious, were it not for the actions of the police officers the damage could have been much more devastating,” said Odinga, to chants of “Shindwe kabisa!” from the audience. “It was something that was properly planned, the police managed to arrest 15 goons that evening with bundles of money that had been given and the weapons they were supposed to use,” he added. In the incident, Odinga and his allies had just attended the burial of the late Rift Valley businessman Kibor in Soy, when rowdy youth started pelting his chopper and vehicles in his convoy with stones. According to Odinga, his team had information of the attack on the material morning and even made attempts to adjust his schedule to avoid the goons. “Unfortunately, we did not go home at the time they expected us to go, I had received information earlier in the morning that they had been hired to attack me at the funeral, so I decided to go when the service was over,” he said. The former Prime Minister further lashed out at his rivals in the Kenya Kwanza Alliance over what he described as political demagoguery and perpetuating divisive politics. “Our adversaries have tried so many things, they came up with a very divisive ideology of the rich vs. the poor and it did not work,” said Odinga. Meanwhile, 15 of the 17 suspects who were arrested in connection with Odinga’s attack have since been released over lack of sufficient evidence. The National Police Service had earlier indicated that the suspects who are believed to have been mobilized to orchestrate the attack were found in possession of cash money in Ksh.50 denominations. The other two are expected to face charges attempted murder, incitement to violence, malicious damage to property and disturbance of peace.