A Kenyan living in the United Kingdom has
sued the Communication Authority of Kenya over the directive requiring mobile
service operators to register their customers afresh. Eliud Karanja Matindi wants the court to
declare the said directive as unconstitutional. CA had stated that it will suspend SIM cards
of customers who fail to register afresh by April 15, 2022. Matindi however claims the directive is in
violation and infringement of the Constitution (including the Bill of Rights),
statutes, regulations and other applicable laws. According to him, it is unconstitutional to
require mobile telephone service subscribers who have already registered their
SIM cards with their service provider to register afresh. He also challenges the requirement of natural
persons who wish to register as mobile telephone service subscribers to submit
to their photographs being taken, processed and retained as a precondition of
such registration. He also claims it is against the Constitution
to require mobile telephone service subscribers to disclose all mobile
telephone numbers already registered to them, including with other mobile
telephone service providers as part of the registration process. “The petitioner, alongside the other people
of Kenya, aspires for a government based on the essential values of human
rights, equality, freedom, democracy, social justice and the rule of law,” reads
court documents. He has named the Communication Authority, ICT
Cabinet Secretary, Data Protection Commissioner, as well as the Kenya National
Commission on Human Rights  as
respondents in the suit. Others named are; National Gender and
Equality Commission, Commission on Administrative Justice, Safaricom, Airtel
Networks and Telkom Kenya. “Under Article 3(1) of the Constitution of
Kenya, the Petitioner, the Respondents, the Interested Party and this
Honourable Court, are all under an obligation to respect, uphold and defend the
Constitution,” states the petition. He says he instituted the suit in the public
interest and that his right or fundamental freedom in the Bill of Rights has
been denied, violated or infringed. He wants Section 5B (5), 27 and 27D, Kenya
Information and Communications Act, 1998, declared unconstitutional and,
therefore, null and void. According to him, the directive might force
the mobile operators to suspend the services of any of their subscribers who
will not have registered their mobile telephone lines as required from April
15, with deactivation of service 90 days after such suspension, if still not
registered. He notes that the precondition for this fresh
registration, all natural persons must submit to have their photographs taken,
processed and retained, failure to which will lead to the suspension followed
by deactivation 90 days later. He wants the court to compel the telcos to
delete and expunge from their records and systems photographs of persons who
are registered mobile subscribers, collected during the registration process.  Justice Hedwig Ong’udi certified the case as
urgent and directed him to serve CA and the mobile telephone operators with the
court documents within seven days.