Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka now says the
late former President Mwai Kibaki endorsed him for the country’s top seat at
the end of his tenure in 2012. Kalonzo, who served as Vice President during Kibaki’s
second term in office, said that due to their cordial working relationship, the
then Head of State endorsed him to be his successor in the lead up to the 2013 polls, while on a tour of Machakos County. “As the Vice President, my number one
preoccupation was to make sure that Kibaki must do what he did with relative
calm and peace of mind," Kalonzo said in an exclusive interview with
Citizen TV. “I never caused Kibaki any stress. In fact,
he was so happy at the end of it before he left office he got hold of his bakora and we drove as we were
going to plant trees in Kitui.” He added: “We stopped in Machakos and Kibaki
there issued a statement and he said huyu Vice President amenisaidia sana, sasa mnisaidie tumueke hapo juu; that
was an endorsement." The Wiper boss went further to defend his
assertions saying that he kept a tight bond with Kibaki that enabled the
prosperity of the regime. “The chemistry was absolutely correct; I
can’t remember a day when he called and said ‘what is this I hear?’ No, we
worked under a working government, it really was," he stated. During the contested 2007 election where
Kalonzo emerged third behind Kibaki and former premier Raila Odinga, he
dismissed claims that his involvement in the highly-contested polls prevented
the two perceived front runners from achieving an early lead. In defending his decision to run, he argued
that he was entitled by the law to be in the contest, even though his current
move to back Odinga is centred on ensuring support is consolidated to propel the
Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party flagbearer to the presidency. “I would not regret it. I have a political
right to run for president and just in case, I think they were right. And that
is why this time, to ease the heat in the country, let me support Raila for the
third time so that I can appease those kinds of negative forces,” Kalonzo
stated. At the same time, Kalonzo commended the late
president’s legacy, terming Kibaki as a “servant and tolerant” leader who
ensured harmony among others. While noting that the coalition government
that brought in Odinga as Prime Minister contributed to the success of the
government at the time, Kalonzo opined that the nation currently should adapt
to that kind of leadership. “When we were joined by Raila Odinga, the
success of the grand coalition government which was the first-ever in Africa,
was something we should all revisit,” he said. “I am a negotiator and even if anybody needs
me to negotiate a peaceful transition of President Uhuru Kenyatta, I’m ready,
in memory of Mzee Kibaki.”