 IEBC will convene a meeting with disgruntled members of political parties opposing the Thursday deadline at its Anniversary Towers headquarters in Nairobi, on Tuesday, April 26,  2022. On Monday, the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition was back at IEBC Headquarters after its initial petition to have its Presidential aspirant Raila Odinga delay the naming of his running mate at least until next month, was dismissed. "The chairman of the Commission was engaged in Parliament, during the public viewing of his excellency Mwai Kibaki. So we have agreed that we are going to meet Tuesday at 10AM. But we met with other commissioners and made alot of progress," said Junet. But even as Azimio la Umoja One Kenya seeks an extension of time allowed before revealing its Presidential running mate,  IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati through a statement to political parties invoked article 148 of the constitution, noting that "it is our considered view that by the time the party nomination window closes, presidential candidates should have nominated their running mates." The requirement that presidential and gubernatorial candidates submit names of their running mates by 28th of April 2022 falls within the commission's mandate. "You see time is not adequate when your'e dealing with serious issues, but we shall see in the best reasonable manner possible... our meeting with IEBC tomorrow will determine what the future looks like," added Junet. The Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Council Member and Secretary-General of the Executive Committee says the newly formed Advisory Panel tasked with picking Raila Odinga's running mate will be operationalized to deliver its mandate by Thursday, April 28th deadline. "The Panel is in place and once we meet with IEBC we will operationalize it. The Panel is ready to go to work," said Junet. Azimio la umoja presidential secretariat spokesman Professor Makau Mutua had claimed that IEBC scheduled 29th May to 6th June 2022 as the dates for clearing presidential candidates alongside their running mates before the IEBC chairperson. ]William Ruto's Kenya Kwanza Alliance has also not revealed it's presidential running mate wasn't present at Anniversary Towers.