 The Ministry of Education has unveiled a new
set of literature books for English and Kiswahili Fasihi for the period
starting 2022 to 2026 for all secondary schools. According to the ministry, the texts will be
rolled out in April this year for Form Three students while others will be released
in January 2023. “This is to inform you that the final phase
of set books for Literature in English and Fasihi ya Kiswahili for secondary
schools for the period 2022-2026 has been finalized,” read a statement by KICD
Director of Quality Assuarance Mary Gaturu to all secondary school heads. “Some of the texts are to be studied by Form
3 students beginning April while others are scheduled to commence in January
2023.” The current set books that are now being
phased out have been in play since 2017 in accordance with the set duration of five
years. For English Literature, the new compulsory
novel will be ‘Fathers of Nations’ by
Paul B. Vitta, which replaces Blossoms of the Savanna by Henry Ole Kulet. The compulsory play will be ‘The Samaritan’ by John Lara, to
replace ‘A Doll’s House’ by Henry Ibsen. Optional novels include; ‘Artist of the Floating World’ by
Kazuo Ishiguro, which takes the place of ‘The Pearly’ by John Steinbeck. ‘A Silent Song and
Other Stories’ edited by Godwin Siundu will be the
optional anthology of short stories
that is set to replace ‘Memories We Lost’ by Chris Wanjala. The optional play that comes in to take the
place of David Mulwa’s ‘inheritance’ is ‘A Parliamentary of Owls’ by Adipo Sidang. On the Fasihi ya Kiswahili’s Tamthilia category, ‘Bembea’ by Timothy Moriasi
will replace ‘Kigogo’ by Pauline Kea Kyovi. ‘Mapambazuko ya
Machweo na Hadithi Nyingine’ is the Hadithi Fupi that
will set in for ‘Tumbo Lisiloshiba na Hadithi Nyingine’ by Aliya Chokocho na
Dumu Kayanda. On Riwaya, ‘Nguu za Jadi’ by Prof Clara
Momanyi will replace the current ‘Chozi La Heri’ by Assumpta K. Matei In regard to the rising cases of fraud and
copyright issues in purchasing copies, the ministry has cautioned students,
teachers and parents against falling prey to fraudsters. It implored them to watch out for approval by
the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) and laid out other
features to consider so as to procure genuine copies with the intended content. “The books for the period 2022- 2026 have a
running footnote on every page stating ‘approved by KICD 2021 edition’ and ‘kimeidhinishwa
na KICD toleo la 2021’ for English and Kiswahili respectively,” said the ministry.  “All the new set books have a security tag on
the cover which when scratched will reveal a sixteen (16) digit pin number.
When the pin number is sent by SMS to 22776 you will receive a message
confirming whether the copy is genuine or pirated.”