 Immediate former Rift Valley Regional
Commissioner George Natembeya now says his decision to resign and vie for the
Trans Nzoia gubernatorial seat was fueled by the desire to serve his county
folk. Natembeya stated that his venture into
politics came after he identified a gap in the county’s leadership and thus
wanted to offer his competence to develop the region. “I just want to transfer my successes from
the provincial administration in the national government to the county government,”
Natembeya said in an interview with KTN News on Wednesday night. “I want to offer a new kind of leadership
that is going to transform people’s lives and to ensure objectives of the
devolutions and the establishment of the county government are reached;
basically, to lift the people out of poverty and empower them.” He explained that his decision was informed
since he has worked with politicians throughout the country and fully has
insight into the challenges facing Trans Nzoia. “My job has enabled me to travel across the
country and have seen what needs to be done. I have seen counties which are
doing well and others which are not doing very well,” he said. Natembeya dismissed claims that he is bound
to be corrupted by politics, terming such reports as fear-mongering that should
not be given priority. “There is this assumption that politics is
dirty but the politicians are the ones who are dirty and not politics,” he said. In addressing how he would be able to cope with
service when he is used to instructing rather than listening to the people,
Natembeya noted that his position as the commissioner has long been
misunderstood. He explained that he had been presiding over
'barazas' where he had to listen, consult and address challenges. “Where need be, I act tough but I adjust to
situations. I am not rigid. I also hold briefings before the conferences and my
team is always well informed,” he explained. Similarly, the former RC exuded confidence
saying that his superiors; President Uhuru Kenyatta, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i
and PS Karanja Kibicho, appreciated his new move after handing in his resignation
and stating his case. He, however, pointed out that at first the CS
was worried especially about his soon-to-be predecessor due to his exemplary
performance but that he eventually understood. “I explained to them that now I have served
the nation and would want to serve my people. They were happy,” he stated. Natembeya adds to a list of contestants
seeking to succeed the current Governor Patrick Khaemba whose two-term reign
comes to an end in August this year.  Among those who have already declared their
intentions are; the county’s Finance CEC Boniface Wanyonyi, Kiminini MP Chris
Wamalwa, Trans Nzoia Woman Rep Janet Nangabo, former Agriculture CEC Andrew
Wanyonyi, businessman Moses Khaoya, and Philomena Samoei.