The
United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has rubbished a media report pertaining to
reveal the intricacies of the party’s recent coalition agreement with Amani National
Congress (ANC) and Ford-Kenya. The
report, as published by a local daily on Saturday, claimed that the partnership
between UDA leader Deputy President William Ruto, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya’s
Moses Wetangula will see the DP personally pick a running mate of his own
choosing ahead of the August presidential polls. It
also alleged that UDA would handpick a Deputy Governor, Senate and Woman
Representative candidates for Nairobi County as well as a Senate aspirant in
Trans Nzoia. Mudavadi,
the report said, will be appointed chief minister should DP Ruto emerge
victorious at the polls. He
would allegedly also be given the task of picking Finance and Devolution
Cabinet Secretaries, besides having a say on appointments made at another
ministry. His
party ANC will similarly also be allowed to provide gubernatorial candidates
for Nairobi, Kakamega and Vihiga counties. Wetangula,
on the other hand, the report claimed will be allotted two positions in the
DP's cabinet and a free pass during Bungoma County's Senate seat nomination. His
party Ford Kenya will similarly determine appointments at another ministry same
as ANC, and also be allowed gubernatorial candidates in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia
counties. However,
UDA Secretary General Veronica Maina, dismissed the report as inaccurate and
merely speculative, at best. “It
has come to the attention of the party that there is inaccurate information
reported by the headline of The Standard newspaper of 29th January, 2022 titled
‘Revealed: How UDA allies plan to share power’ which has since been replicated
through other social media platforms on the purported agreement between UDA,
ANC and FORD Kenya,” she said in a statement. “These
media reports are speculative and based on journalistic assumption…I wish to
urge members of the public and the members and supporters of the respective
political parties involved to ignore such misrepresentation and treat it with
the contempt it deserves.” She further stated that any details of the pact
between the three political parties, if any, will be communicated by their leaders
in due course.