 Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader
Raila Odinga is now calling for intensified security patrols along the Meru-Isiolo
border where recent clashes claimed seven lives. Odinga, who attended the mass burial for the
seven victims in Tigania East, Meru County, called on Meru and Isiolo residents to live in harmony and set aside
their differences. Odinga blamed ethnic differences for the
deaths and vowed to push for unity in the region, but first have security
patrols along the border. “Hatuwezi
kubali ati watu wanakuja ovyo ovyo pahali wananchi wanaishi, wanawapiga bunduki
na kutoroka, na polisi wanasema ata hiyo bunduki hawajui iko wapi. Ni kazi ya
polisi kutafuta hao watu mpaka washikwe,” he said. The former premier said the boundary between
Meru and Isiolo was intact and called for military deployment to enforce border
patrols. “Hatuwezi kuvumilia
mambo kama haya, maanake kama inavumiliwa inakuwa tabia… mpaka tayari ilipimwa
ikajulikana Meru iko wapi na Isiolo iko wapi…kwa hivyo, kwa sababu ya yale
ambayo yanafanyika wakati huu, mimi ntapendekeza kwamba iwe patrol ya jeshi
hapa kwa mpaka,” said Odinga. Azimio la Umoja politics took centre stage during
the burial ceremony with Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi declaring that his
Devolution Empowerment Party will back Odinga's presidential bid. “Tunajua Baba
pahali anatembea popote Kenya anaongea juu ya Azimio la Umoja…ningetaka
kumwambia sisi tukiwa Wameru ata sisi tunaunga hiyo azimio tuwe pamoja na watu
wengine,” said Govenor Murungi. Odinga added: “Yale
shida ambayo mko nayo hapa ni kwa sababu bado tuko kwa pre-industrial economic
structure…watu wanategemea tu mifugo pekee yake…tunataka kuona kama
tumebadilisha uchumi yetu kama Wakenya.” The ODM chief used the opportunity to tell
off Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, who was also present at the burial, over his “madoadoa”
remarks. “Sasa ni vizuri sana nimeona Senator wenu
amefika hapa…na nataka kusema kama yeye hajaongea hapa, mambo ya ‘madoadoa’
awachane nayo…hakuna ‘madoadoa’ katika taifa letu, kila Mkenya ni Mkenya
anaweza kuishi kila mahali,” said Odinga. In Nairobi, Azimio Young Turks led by Kieni MP
Kanini Kega announced that the Thika Saturday meeting is good to go. The Azimio la Umoja train moves to Taita
Taveta on Friday with Odinga expected to launch several water projects in
Maktau then address a rally in Overseer.  Odinga will later hold a public rally in
Mwatate town, before on Saturday continuing with the Azimio meetings in Thika
with a scheduled rally in Mt. Kenya University grounds.