 Unrest
broke out in cities across Kazakhstan on Wednesday, as thousands angrily protested a sharp fuel price hike that
sparked the resignation of the Central Asian country's government. Local
media reported the airport in the country's biggest city, Almaty, was breached
by protesters, while a state of emergency has been
declared in Kazakhstan's capital Nursultan, Almaty, and in other regions
following tense demonstrations. In
three cities, local administration officials came under attack, buildings were
damaged and "stones, sticks, gas, pepper, and Molotov cocktails were
used," according to a statement by the Interior Ministry. A journalist in
Almaty told CNN they were experiencing internet outage and lights appeared to
be off in buildings near the President's residence and mayor's office. The
press service of the Almaty airport told local outlet Orda.kz there were
"about 45 invaders at the airport" on Wednesday evening. "The
airport employees evacuated passengers on their own," they added. The
protests were ignited when the government lifted price controls on liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG) at the start of the year, Reuters reported. Many Kazakhs
have converted their cars to run on the fuel because of its low cost. Prime
Minister Askar Mamin resigned amid the protests, and Kazakhstan's President
Kassym-Jomart Tokayev held a meeting on "the evolving difficult socio-political
and socio-economic situation in the country," according to a statement
published on the presidential website Wednesday. Tokayev
also said in a national television address on Wednesday that he will take
control of the country's Security Council -- a move that seemingly sidelines
his predecessor, the country's longtime President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who led
the country since it was a Soviet Republic until his departure in 2019, and has
remained an influential but controversial figure behind the scenes and on the
council since. Oil-rich
Kazakhstan, the world's ninth-largest nation by landmass, has attracted foreign
investment and maintained a strong economy since its independence, but its
autocratic method of governance has at times prompted international concern and
has seen authorities harshly crack down on protests, according to global rights
groups. The
State Department's 2018 human rights report noted Kazakhstan's 2015
presidential election, in which Nazarbayev received 98% of votes cast,
"was marked by irregularities and lacked genuine political
competition." Alikhan
Smailov has been appointed acting prime minister, and members of the government
will continue to serve until the formation of the new cabinet, the statement
added. A
local journalist told CNN that thousands of people were protesting outside the
mayor's office in Almaty on Wednesday. "More
than 10,000 people at the city administration building, we call it the Akimat.
They have encircled it," Serikzhan Mauletbay, deputy editor in chief of
Orda.kz, said. Mauletbay said stun grenades were used and there is "some
kind of fire," according to an Instagram live video he watched from the
scene. Another
journalist described the scene as chaotic and said they could hear and see what
they believed were stun grenades going off and shots being fired, but it is
unclear what the firing sounds were. Kazakhstan
hasn't asked Russia for help in regards to the situation in the country,
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told Russian state media on Wednesday. Russia
maintains close relations with Kazakhstan and Russia depends on the Baikonur
Cosmodrome as the launch base for all Russian manned space missions. The
Central Asian nation also has a significant ethnic Russian minority; the CIA
World Factbook says around 20% of Kazakhstan's population is ethnically
Russian. The
Kazakh president said a number of measures aimed "to stabilize the
socio-economic situation" had been put into place, including government
regulation of fuel prices for a period of 180 days, a moratorium on increasing
utility tariffs for the population for the same period, and the consideration
of rent subsidies for "vulnerable segments of the population."  On
Tuesday evening, Tokayev said on his official Twitter feed the government has
decided to reduce the price for LPG in the Mangistau region to 50 tenge ($0.11)
per liter "in order to ensure stability in the country."