 A section of religious leaders have
underscored that it is imperative for stern action to be taken against elected
leaders found guilty of perpetuating hate speech and tribal segregation across
the country. This comes after three different legislators;
Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, his Kericho counterpart Aaron Cheruiyot and
Kitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka, were probed over alleged incitement claims in
the span of one week. With the August general elections fast
approaching, many Kenyans are concerned that should such cases be left
unchecked, Kenya might end up having a repeat of the post-election violence
witnessed in 2007. “Whatever comes out of our mouth is hard to
take back.  An apology may not answer the
problem. What we really need is action. We need to formalize a way in which
everyone of us must be accountable for what we say,” ACK Archbishop Joseph Ole
Sapit said in a panel interview on JK Live on Wednesday night. According to Ole Sapit, it is only by
enforcing legal action that hate speech mongers will be deterred from backing
and stomaching hate speech and provocation. “We need to find a way to punish them
severely; heavy fines, jail terms or even barring someone from getting an
opportunity to run for an elected office,” he opined. Sheikh Ibrahim Lethome mirrored Ole Sapit’s
sentiments citing that the biggest problem with the country is its failure to
implement laws as stipulated in the Constitution. According to Sheikh Lethome, this gaping
problem is the reason why the country’s Judiciary system is not taken seriously
by some elected leaders and high ranking government officials. “Our problem is not that we don’t have laws
in place. The problem is implementing them. When they are implemented they are
implemented selectively. We need to take action, punish people in accordance
with the law,” Lethome said. He similarly added that the Constitution is
very clear on the limits of freedom of speech and it does not extend to
propaganda and war mongering, hence as such the law should be upheld despite the
status of the perpetrators. “If we allow people to forget what happened
to us in 2007 and go out there and make careless utterances it will be dangerous.
We need to learn from our past,” he argued.  On his part, Bishop David Oginde consequently
added that failure to act on hate mongers will lead to impunity as leaders will
not take into account the consequences of their utterances since they are confident
no action will be taken against them by local legal authorities in any
scenario.