 Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya
now says that Kenyan citizens have gradually started to come to terms with the
idea of Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga succeeding
President Uhuru Kenyatta. According to Munya, Odinga’s tactical move to
involve the grassroots in his political campaigns has resonated well with
Kenyans who firmly believe that the former premier will address their
grievances should he emerge victorious at the August polls. “Tunaona kule tunaelekea. Jana tulikuwa
tunazunguka Rift Valley na Trans Nzoia na watu wameanza kubadilika na kushika
wewe. Hiyo propaganda na kasumba ilikuwa imewekwa imeisha,” the CS said. “Naona tukielekea huko mbele kila mtu atakuwa
na Baba kwa sababu Wakenya wamekuelewa kama shujaa ambaye amepigania Kenya
miaka hii yote na ambaye lengo lake ni kuleta mabadiliko.” Munya was speaking at Mount Kenya
University in Thika, Kiambu County, on Saturday when Odinga took his Azimio la
Umoja campaign trail to the Central Kenya town as he continues soliciting the
region’s support ahead of the August general elections. The CS similarly lauded Odinga for his
decision to partner with President Kenyatta in the now famous ‘handshake’
citing that through the deal, the duo have managed to unite Kenyans hailing
from different parts of the country. “Pia Baba nakushukuru kwa partnership ile
mmekuwa nayo pamoja na president wetu Uhuru Kenyatta; hii partnership ya kuleta
Kenya pamoja kwa sababu Kenya itaendelea kama tunaembrace Wakenya wote. Kenya
haitaendelea kama kuna Wakenya wanabaguliwa na hawana opportunity ya
kujiendeleza,” the CS stated. Munya then proceeded to take a swipe at
Odinga’s critics underscoring that certain factions were preaching divisive
politics instead of attempting to unite the nation, especially since the
elections are fast approaching. “Kuna wengine ajenda zao ni kugawa Wakenya
ndio unaona wakienda mkutano wakisema Wakenya ni madoadoa. Mkenya anaweza kuwa
madoadoa kweli? Hata mgeni yule ako Kenya si madoadoa. Baba tunakushukuru
wewe umekataa hiyo,” the CS said.  He consequently reassured Thika residents
that Odinga would help improve the region’s agriculture sector should he clinch
the presidency, citing that improving the industry is a key area that the ODM
frontman intends to advance for the betterment of the locals.