 Tanzania's National Assembly Speaker Job Yustino Ndugai has resigned from the position following a fallout with President Samia Suluhu Hassan. In a statement on Thursday, Speaker Ndugai submitted his
resignation letter to his Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) secretary-general notifying
of his move to step down. “I want to notify the Tanzanian Citizens that today being 6th
January 2022, I have written a letter to the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary-General seeking to resign from the position of Speaker of the National Assembly
of the Republic of Tanzania,” read the statement. Ndugai explained that he had settled for the decision without
any interference. “This decision is personal and optional and was made with
the interests of my country, the government and my CCM party,” he noted. Ndugai went forth to state that he had already informed the
parliamentary authorities of the decision as stipulated in Tanzanian laws. “I have already submitted the copies of my resignation
letter to the secretary-general of the Republic of Tanzanian Parliament in
regard to the process as required in the constitution so as to facilitate the
appointment of another speaker,” the statement read. Ndugai similarly appreciated his superiors, colleagues and countrymen for the period he had served and worked together with them saying they had harmoniously assisted him in serving the country.   “I, therefore, take this opportunity to thank my fellow lawmakers, her Excellency President Salma Suluhu Hassan and the government at
large, my fellow county residents of Kongwa and all Tanzanian citizens for their uniting support in the period that I
was in your service,” he noted. Speaker Ndugai assumed office back in November 2015 under the leadership of President John Magufuli. The move by the speaker comes barely a week after he crossed paths with the Head of State. In a video clip that went viral, the Speaker criticized the government's borrowing trend, saying it was unhealthy. The Speaker said Tanzania risks being auctioned due to rising national debt. However, days later, Ndugai issued an apology to President Suluhu alleging that the video clip was edited to put tension between him and the president.  