 Two more bodies have been recovered from
River Yala, bringing the number of bodies retrieved from the river so far to
23. The discovery of more bodies comes just hours
after a special forensic investigations team from the DCI headquarters was dispatched
to River Yala and Yala sub-county hospital to assist with investigations. "We expect that if the government can
come and bring experts to comb the entire Yala River many bodies will be found
here and we are wondering why the government is not taking this serious,” Fredrick
Odhiambo, a human rights activist, said. Some of the bodies retrieved earlier bore
signs of torture with residents believing that the unidentified bodies are of
persons who may have been killed in different parts of the country before being
dumped in the River. "These bodies are not from this region
because we would have seen family members flocking the area, these bodies are
coming from far from Nairobi, Rift Valley, Coastal region. Two days ago we
recovered two bodies of Somali nationals here,” Odhiambo added. As the discovery of more bodies continues in
River Yala, four families from Mombasa, Bomet, Kakamega and Kisumu counties,
whose relatives have gone missing, flocked Yala sub-county hospital mortuary to
check if the unidentified bodies may be of their loved ones. “Mimi ni mmoja mwenye nimepoteza ndugu yangu
2020 mwezi wa nane, alihijackiwa na magari mawili, saloon cars…moja maroon,
moja nyeupe…kuanzia hiyo wakati nimemtafuta sijampata,” Ismael Okumu, a Mumias
resident, added “I just came here specifically to get to know
if I can get the whereabouts of my brother who went missing on November 17, 2021.
On the fateful day he came to Nakuru for business and that is the night he went
missing,” Bomet resident Felix Ruto said. In a statement to newsrooms, police spokesperson
Bruno Shioso said that the team will speed up the identification of the victims
and other forensic investigations which includes search for more bodies around
the river. He similarly dismissed reports that the 21
bodies were found in the last three months, insisting that police records show
that 19 bodies had been recovered in the last one year. "In the last two years, 19 bodies have
been found dumped in River Yala. This number represents a cumulative body count
over the stated period contrary to reports insinuating all the incidences are a
recent occurrence," Shioso said.