 Residents of Wajir County have been left
between a rock and a hard place with health services at the Wajir County
Referral Hospital paralyzed due to lack of water and electricity. According to healthcare workers at the
hospital, the situation has seen a number of new born babies die. The hospital's management however indicates
that the blackouts experienced are not the norm as it is a problem across Wajir
County. In this hospital, where electricity blackouts
are commonplace, it is the shuffling of feet, the mobile phone flashlight beams
and perhaps patients’ cries and relatives ranting that will alert you to what
is going on around you in the dead of night. Rashid Mohammed, MCA,
Wagberi Ward, said: “There is lack of water in the hospital, there is no
electricity, the entire hospital is in shutdown." According to the hospital's Chief Executive
Officer, Dr. Bashir Mohammed, the electricity issue in the hospital is a
general county problem. He stated: “I am aware there have been
outages like the rest of Wajir, it is a KPLC problem. It is not a norm, there
has been power outages before. But sometimes the hospital has been using a
backup generator but it also developed a problem because of the outages. I can
however confirm that there have been no lives lost.” Dr. Ahmed Noor, Wajir KMPDU Chair on his part, said: “Babies dying in the NBU…they died because there was
no electricity, that is not our fault, we cannot do anything about it. If the
generator has been procured, should it not be in place already?” The last one week, the Wajir Regional
Laboratory has been closed; there are no reagents to do the vital tests
required, leaving public healthcare services at a standstill. Banin Hussein, a village
elder, said: “Hakuna mtu anafanya operation, hakuna mtu ya kuzalisha, hakuna
stima, hakuna popote, na serikali iko wapi? Hakuna ata mtu ya kusafisha,
inanuka kama kitu ingine.” According to the medical workers at the
hospital, the conditions are deplorable. “Healthcare workers
have been consistent in working in conditions that are very deplorable, but we
will continue serving in such conditions but soon enough we will not be able
to continue,” added Dr. Noor. They stated that efforts to have their issues
addressed by one of them saw their colleague physically assaulted by officers
alleged to be attached to the county governor. “We felt that the process
that would lead to the apprehension of these officers was going on very very
slowly, so as healthcare workers the only language we understand is industrial
action,” said the Wajir KMPDU Chair. Texts and calls to the county's health
department and leadership have gone unanswered.  While the day gives reassurance to the Wajir
County residents that at least there could be a level of medical assistance
accorded to them at the hospital, nightfall brings along a different scenario,
one that even the healthcare workers are wary of.