At least 34 Kenyans and foreigners living in Kenya went missing over the last 6 months of 2021 with human rights groups linking their disappearances and probable deaths to security agencies. This is almost double the 18 who disappeared in 2020. Some of the abductions occurred in broad daylight whilst the finer details of other abductions still remain shrouded in mystery. A majority of the disappearances have been linked to terror probes or business deals gone wrong but families rarely get closure on why their loved ones were abducted & sometimes even killed. Here is a list of 5 prominent abductions: 1. Samson Teklemichael Samson was kidnapped in broad daylight by people believed to be security officers on the 21st of November 2021. The businessman who deals in the gas export business is said to have made a call to his wife moments after his kidnapping. Police are yet to reveal whether they have made any headway in their investigations as his family continues to appeal for help. 2. Mwenda Mbijiwe The former private in the Kenya Air Force disappeared on the 12th of June 2021 in unclear circumstances. His car was found on a coffee farm in Tatu City but the car keys and his personal belongings were missing. Mbijiwe was a regular commentator on matters of national security and counterterrorism in the media. 3. Mohamed Bashir The 35-year-old engineer went missing from Kilimani in Nairobi on the 13th of May 2021. CCTV footage revealed that Bashir was last seen leaving Miale Lounge in Lavington. Three days later the body was retrieved from River Nyamindi. The director of Infinity Developers Limited had been in Kenya for the last five years undertaking multi-million-shilling construction projects in the country. 4. Kitengela Quartet Jack Anyango, Elijah Obuong, Benjamin Imbai and Brian Oduor disappeared mysteriously from Kitengela on the 19th of April 2021. Their car was found abandoned at a parking lot near their last seen location the following day. At least three bodies of the four friends were later on discovered in Kiambu & Murang’a county. A special team was formed to look into the disappearances and deaths of the four but is yet to go public with its findings. 5. Dalton Mwitiki The businessman was reported missing on the 11th of March 2020. Detectives believe that he was abducted in Kilimani whilst his vehicle, a black Land Rover Discovery was found dumped in Juja, Kiambu County on the 13th of March 2021. Mwitiki, a notable marksman, shot to fame in 2019 after he was pictured at the scene of the Dusit terror attack alongside city politician Steve Mbogo.