A butcher operating a chain of Nyama Choma eateries along the Eastern Bypass, was Saturday night arrested for allegedly being involved in a cattle theft valued at over Ksh 1 million in Utawala, Nairobi. According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the suspect identified as 41-year-old Peter Njenga alias 'Sonko' was arrested after forensic investigations linked him to the theft of a herd of cattle on December 16, last year in Athi River, Machakos county. Njenga together with his accomplices are said to have then ferried the cattle in a lorry to Dagoretti slaughterhouse where it is alleged to be a booming market for livestock including stolen animals. "Detectives from the elite Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau, together with Athi River based sleuths have since established that the cattle were driven to the Dagoretti slaughterhouse, where a ready market for livestock including stolen animals thrives," stated DCI. "In some instances, the animals are slaughtered in the bush and ferried straight to popular meat joints in the city." The DCI statement says Njenga's arrest followed uproar from herders based in Athi-river after livestock theft cases went on  the rise. He is said to have a series of eateries strategically located in places where customers and revelers are known to frequent. "Maina’s arrest came after numerous complaints from Athi River based herders, following an increase in livestock disappearance over the past few months," read the statement. "The suspect is an established butcher who operates nyama choma eateries, scattered across the city. They are located at strategic places along the eastern bypass in Utawala and Ruiru towns, where city residents and revelers frequent to enjoy mouth-watering nyama choma and other accompaniments." Maina has since aided the detectives into further investigations leading to the arrest of one more accomplice David Gachora who is said to be the driver of the lorry used in the raid. "After being grilled since last night, the suspect has led detectives to his accomplices in the multi-million livestock theft industry. Among the arrested is the driver of the lorry that ferried the livestock David Gachora and the lorry’s owner Samuel Mwangi," stated DCI. "After checking out Gachora’s details in our criminal database, detectives established that he has a history of ferrying stolen livestock and has a similar case pending at the Mavoko Law courts."