 A fresh bandit attack in Lamu
County’s Kilimani area of Mokwe has left one person injured and several houses
torched despite an ongoing high-level multi-agency operation in the Coastal
town’s mainland. The daring attackers, who struck
for the fifth time in less than a month, are reported to have even slaughtered
animals belonging to the villagers before making away with the meat. “I was sleeping when I heard some
commotion outside and when I woke up I found my house burning,” Abdi Salat, a
survivor of the inferno, told Citizen TV. Mariam Warsame, Salat’s sister, says
area residents are now fearful that other attacks might soon follow the dawn
inferno that almost claimed the siblings’ lives. “I am afraid of sleeping here.
How can I even sleep here?” she posed as she attempted to salvage property
razed by the inferno. Residents from Mashagoni Kibaoni
village, which is just a few kilometres away from Mokwe, are also counting
their losses following a similar incident that saw bandits raze houses to the
ground before skinning two goats and slaughtering chicken. They then proceeded to leave the
animals’ bowels behind. “They stole eight chicken but I
am not sure if they slaughtered them or if they carried them as they made their
escape,” one of the residents, Patrick Wambugu, said. According to Lamu County
Commissioner Irungu Macharia, the bandits are thought to be hiding nearby based
on their decision to slaughter the animals and make away with their meat in a
bid to stock up on supplies. “Based on their actions, it seems
they were looking for supplies as such it is highly likely that the culprits
remain hidden among us,” Macharia stated. Security chiefs have since
asserted that the ongoing operation in the area will flush out the bandits who
are suspected to have disappeared into Witu and Boni forests. Speaking in Mombasa, Interior
Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho assured Kenyans of their security stating
that it is only a matter of time before the bandits are arrested and
prosecuted. “The operation is massive and we
expect in a very short time that Lamu will be very calm because we have
deployed every effort on earth to ensure that those people are repulsed,” the
PS said. As police hunt down the raiders,
the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji has directed Inspector
General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to arrest and investigate Lamu based
political activist Abaubakar Amana for alleged utterances that might have
sparked the latest attacks.  The attacks, targeting specific
Lamu villages, have notably been escalating in the past three weeks leaving
more than 10 people dead and property destroyed.