 Former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi
Kiunjuri has asserted that Deputy President William Ruto has a definitive
advantage over his rivals in the race to woo the Mount Kenya region for votes
ahead of the August polls. Since siding with President Uhuru Kenyatta in
2013, Kiunjuri argues that the DP has charmed himself into the hearts of Mt.
Kenya residents, owing to the fact that he played an integral role in helping
Kenyatta clinch the presidency after previous failed attempts. “The people of Mt. Kenya region felt indebted
in one way or another in that he helped their son to become president and that
alone has really endeared him. He also went ahead to make friends and has his
own grassroots people, that is not a candidate you can ignore,” Kiunjuri said in
an interview with the Nation newspaper. Despite labeling Ruto as the frontrunner in
the region, Kiunjuri added that the DP will have to tread carefully to maintain
his influence especially since he has not publicly declared his intention to
work with a number of influential Mt. Kenya leaders unlike his main rival,
Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga. “He (Ruto) has chosen to ignore the leaders
when it comes to his campaigns and has not been able to say if he is working
with any of them. Remember Raila Odinga came and the first thing he did was to
go to all the leaders in the region,” Kiunjuri added. “Much as you would like to ignore them, there
is no community that does not have its leaders.” According to The Service Party of Kenya (TSP)
leader, DP Ruto’s stance on not forming ‘tribal coalitions’, to augment his
presidential bid may come back to haunt him once the polls are set and done. He consequently added that the DP’s recent
chastising of Odinga over claims that the ODM leader abhors Amani National
Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses
Wetangula was not helping his cause. “DP Ruto despises Mt. Kenya leaders and has
decided to eclipse them. Those small things can cost him dearly. Look at what
happened in Kirinyaga County. (Woman Representative) Wangui Ngirici’s heart is
pained. Do you want to tell me that Ngirici cannot influence 5,000 people? She
can influence much more than that. DP Ruto should put his house in order,” he
added. “Raila has been demonized in the mountain for
ages. Do you think he stands a chance there? Nothing is impossible. Raila can
definitely penetrate Mt. Kenya. How far can he go? That is the big question.
That will depend on the number of missteps that the DP will make in the
region.”  While underscoring that his TSP party was not
ready to contest for the presidency, the former CS hinted that it was willing
to listen to offers pertaining the forming of coalitions in as far as the race
is concerned.