Amani National Coalition (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has promised Kenyans an earthquake of gargantuan political proportions as his party holds its National Delegates Conference at the Bomas of Kenya. The party is also expected to reveal its flag-bearer, Mudavadi,  before a delegation of 6,000 invited guests. The ANC leader has been teasing his much-awaited political declaration as one that will shake up and completely alter the Kenyan political course, some 7 months to Kenya’s next General Election. With the race to succeed President Kenyatta heating up, Mudavadi who has remained coy about his 2022 game plan, has a smattering of options, which include, among others, teaming up with his former NASA co-principal Raila Odinga, going it alone, or joining Deputy President William Ruto in UDA. And with One Kenya Alliance (OKA) also a big factor, it remains to be seen what the Sunday declaration will auger for the foursome that brings together KANU’s Gideon Moi, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula. Preparations for  Mudavadi’s big day were already complete by Saturday evening, with Kenyans on Twitter having a field day after Mudavadi Tweeted a poster tease to the event captioning it : Haiya…Mko Tayari? Earthquake Loading “I don't think there will be any earthquake or surprise news as such because already in the advert it's clearly indicated "Musalia Mudavadi Presidential Launch" so kenyans are already aware of what will take place in Bomas tomorrow 23rd,” Kipkemoi Koech commented. “MDVD is going to surprise the public by endorsing RAO...u think thats what is meant by earthquake at Bomas today,” Patrick Nyakune speculated. While Sherlyne Anyango ill-advisedly urged Kenyans, for their own safety, to stay indoors: Stay indoors fellas The ANC leader was quoted by the Standard saying the declaration on Sunday will lead to the formation of new alliances, and the death of others. Although the cat is still very much in his bag, the ANC leader has defended Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala who has openly flirted with Kenya’s second-in-command DP Ruto severally now, perhaps an indication of the direction his seismic wave will turn.