 Deputy President William Ruto has now
cautioned competitors against discussing his church and harambee donations. The DP singled out his political rival ODM
party leader Raila Odinga telling him to desist from discussing his finances during
his rallies. Ruto, while defending his donations which Odinga
has termed as illicit proceeds, affirmed that he is assisting needy Kenyans. “Nimesikia yule ambaye ninashindana na yeye
analalamika sana ati Ruto ametoa milioni mbili kwa vijana wa bodaboda, mara
ametoa milioni mbili asaidie mama mboga. Ni kweli, I have supported close to
300 different groups in Kenya, and I am very proud of it, “ Ruto stated while
addressing a mega rally at Eldoret Sports Club on Saturday. “I want to tell my competitors and Kenyans
that I have not appointed any politician to be an auditor of the finances that
I have. Those masquerading as if they are auditors to anybody, they are fakes.” In what seemed to be a battle of the
financial-might, Ruto lashed out at the former premier saying he was playing
the victim while he himself was wealthier. He went forth to highlight a few assets owned
by Odinga saying it was hypocritical for him to focus on his (Ruto’s) little
donations. “Hawa watu wametuzoea vibaya wanajifanya
wanalalamika ati milioni moja, milioni mbili; hawa watu ni mabilionaire. Mabiashara
yao yako kila mahali,” said Ruto. “Ata huyu ambaye analalamika kwani nyinyi
hamjui hii pombe inauzwa kila mahali ambaye imemaliza watoto wetu si inatoka
kwa kampuni yao hapa chini. Si wako na kampuni ya kuuza gas, si wanauza petrol,
alafu pesa zao wanapeleka Ulaya alafu wanakuja kutufanyia uzembe.” He posed: “Hiyo mabilioni pesa mnapeleka huko
Dubai si mngepea hawa mama mboga ata milioni tano?” The deputy president in his bullish nature
exuded confidence that he would clinch the top seat in the August elections
despite opposition over his bid. “You can arrest as many of us as you can; you
can threaten as many of us as you want, you can blackmail as many of us as you
want; but in this year, in this election, we are going to put an end to all
where every citizen has the power to decide their nation,” Ruto stated. “Hawa mabwanyenye wamezoea mtu wa kuwapigia
makofi, magoti na kura lakini mwaka huu tutawakomesha.”