 UK
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has denied claims he was told in advance
that a "bring your own booze" party held in the garden
of his residence at the height of a national lockdown was a potential breach of
Covid-19 restrictions. Johnson
continues to face criticism from politicians and the public
over several parties allegedly held at 10 Downing Street which
are now the subject of an inquiry. Last
week Johnson was forced to apologize after it emerged that his
principal private secretary, Martin Reynolds, had emailed an invitation to more
than 100 Downing Street staffers to "socially distanced drinks in the No.
10 garden" on May 20, 2020. At
that time, people in England were banned from meeting with more than one other
person outdoors, and would be legally punished for doing so. In workplaces,
official guidance stated that in-person meetings should only take place if
"absolutely necessary." In his apology, Johnson admitted to attending
the gathering but said "I believed implicitly that this was a work event." But
on Monday, Johnson's estranged former senior adviser Dominic Cummings claimed
he would swear under oath that the Prime Minister was warned about the true
nature of the drinks party. Reacting
to those claims on Tuesday, Johnson insisted that he could not fathom that
"we would have gone ahead with an event that people were saying was
against the rules," adding that he did not see the invitation to the party
sent by Reynolds. "Nobody
warned me that it was against the rules ... because I would remember
that," Johnson emphasized. Johnson
added that "if I had my time again, I would not have allowed things to
develop in that way," saying he would have asked the group gathered outside
on May 20 to come indoors or told them "this isn't the right way to do
things." The
Prime Minister continued to place the focus on the investigation into the
parties being carried out by senior civil servant Sue Gray, saying she
"should be given the space to get on and conclude her inquiry" and
urging everyone with memories of the events to speak to her. Johnson
added that it was "not for me to decide who she is going to
interview," when responding to a question as to whether Cummings should be
part of the process. Because
of Gray's position as an unelected civil servant, it is unlikely her report
will outright accuse the Prime Minister of breaking any rules and likely to be
more of a factual report on her investigation into what happened. Johnson
also refused to comment on whether he would resign from his position if the
inquiry finds that he misled the UK Parliament. He
stressed that "we need to see what the report says," adding that
"we can't anticipate what the conclusion of this inquiry will be."  Johnson
also took the opportunity on Tuesday to "repeat my deep apologies to
people for mistakes that may have been made on my watch."