 The One Kenya Alliance (OKA) retreats for
three days to work on a formula that will aid in the selection of its
presidential flag bearer. The strategy meeting comes amid cracks within
the alliance with talk of the principals being wooed by Deputy President
William Ruto and Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party chief Raila Odinga to
bolster their campaigns. The OKA principals will report on Friday to
adopt the recommendations of the technical committee on the matter of picking a
presidential flag bearer. The three-day retreat to be held in Naivasha
from Wednesday will see the OKA technical committee prepare a strategy paper
for their bosses. ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper’s
Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetangula of Ford Kenya and KANU Chairman Gideon Moi are
expected to consider the recommendations of the technical team. The formula of picking the team’s captain has
eluded the alliance think tank
with both Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka digging in. The meeting comes against the backdrop of
overtures aimed at Mudavadi and Wetangula from DP Ruto’s quota. The duo believed to hold sway that would
neutralize opposition chief Raila Odinga’s influence and grip of Western Kenya. Despite denials from the duo, the DP has been
more direct in his quest to form a political pact with the two. On the flipside, Kalonzo is said to be
oscillating around rejoining forces with Odinga; Kalonzo was the ODM chief’s running
mate in the 2013 and 2017 general elections. KANU on its part has openly flirted with Odinga's
Azimio la Umoja group, with the party Chairman Gideon Moi the only OKA principal
to attend the movement’s convention at Kasarani. His presence at the event a was deemed telltale
sign on where his political compass ahead of the 2022 general elections points.  The OKA technical team not only has to
grapple with how and who will be the alliance flagbearer but equally deal with
the complexities of alliance building, given that the alliance appears to be on
a shaky foundation.