 Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko
is once again on the warpath with Deputy President William Ruto, this time
accusing the country’s second-in-command of using family ties for his own
political gain. This comes after the CS’s sister, Kajiado
East Member of Parliament Peris Tobiko, claimed to have visited DP Ruto to apologize
on his behalf over past remarks in which he referred to the DP as a mere “clerk.” “Nilienda Karen kwa William Samoei Ruto
nikamwambia mimi naitwa Peris Tobiko na nimekuja kuomba msamaha ya ndugu yangu
mwenye alimuita clerk. Na nikamwambia kama ni kichwa yangu anataka, alete
kichwa yangu Uasin Gishu ndio tuombe msamaha,” said Peris during DP Ruto’s mega
Eldoret rally on Saturday. She then went ahead to ask the crowd, “Anisamehe?
Atusamehe?” and when they responded in the affirmative she added, “Thank you
very much. Your Excellency umeskia? Msamaha tumepewa hapa.” Peris Tobiko: Nilienda Karen kwa William Ruto kuomba msamaha kwa niaba ya ndugu yangu ambaye aliyemuita clerk. Msamaha tumepewa hapa pic.twitter.com/ETvXCJozOO  CS Tobiko has, however, since come out to say
neither he nor any of his family members sent the MP to tender an apology to
the DP over his remarks, maintaining instead that he stands by his words. According to the Environment CS, he has nothing
to apologize to the DP for, further claiming that Ruto has now resorted to
cheap politics of using family members against their own fellow kin. The CS also delved into the President Uhuru Kenyatta
succession politics, saying the DP is not fit to lead the country as president. “I have nothing to apologise about. I did not
send anyone to Eldoret to apologize on my behalf. Neither has my family sent
anyone to apologise. Ruto is unfortunately using family members to attack fellow
family members. That is his modus operandi,” CS Tobiko exclusively told Citizen
Digital on Saturday evening. “I stand by what I said. Ruto is a mere clerk
for the President just like we are as Cabinet Secretaries. The only difference
between him and us is that he has no respect for the President.”  He added: “I stand by my position, and the
sentiments expressed during the Maa declaration recently that Ruto is not fit
to be President and if God forbid he becomes President, he will mortgage this
country.”