 Deputy President William Ruto’s digital strategist Dennis
Itumbi has come out to narrate details surrounding his alleged abduction last
month. In a post titled ‘I salute you Boniface Makokha,’ the
controversial blogger took to Facebook on Thursday to give his followers his
account of the December 23 ordeal. According to Itumbi, he was whisked by six men in a Toyota
Premio outside a barbershop at Thindigua, Kiambu, handcuffed and beaten in
turns using what he says felt like hammers and crude weapons. "Lazima ubadilishe your political persuasion to match
that of the boss," Itumbi quotes the alleged rogue police officers as
telling him. “Who is the boss? I shot back as they handcuffed me at the
back. “Silence. Whoever it is, tell him we do not change our
political belief, through force and threats, he has to learn the art of
persuasion, I continued,” writes Itumbi. He claims that the abductors stripped him naked, save for
his socks, and later swapped cars to two double cabin pick-up trucks from where
they dumped him by the roadside after the torture. “I am naked, except socks, I had nothing else. First
instinct was to sit down because the pain was too much and I could barely open
my eyes,” he states. The strength to persist and move towards the public and seek
help, Itumbi says, was because of the prayers his followers said for him. “Pain and being naked were no longer issues, survival was
now everything… As a naked man, I knew I would have a tough time stopping any
car, at night,” he says. He claims he was offered help by a boda boda rider who had
seen his story online. “Wawawawa Dennoh, nimeona kwa social media...wacha niongee
na customer wangu nikupeleke hosi,” Itumbi writes, quoting the said rider. Eventually, a car owner emerged from what Itumbi describes
as a traffic snarl-up and identified him, then offered to take him to hospital. “(He) then tells me he cannot take me to hospital Naked. He
drives to his house and gets me a bedsheet,” Itumbi states. The car owner is the Boniface Makokha Itumbi dedicated his
post to. Upon his release from hospital on January 1, Itumbi told
journalists that he had forgiven the unnamed ‘big men’ whom he claimed sent the
rogue officers to intimidate him. He, however, stated that he would give his complete account
of events surrounding the incident in due time.  “In the second week of February, I will be going to a small
church in Kirinyaga to go and give a thanksgiving service. We are going to give
this story as it was,” Itumbi affirmed.