Former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar now says that Deputy President William Ruto should not resign from government amidst criticism from his rivals to do so. In an interview on Citizen TV's News Night  on Tuesday, the former Senator told off Ruto's critics who have suggested that the DP down his tools if he feels sidelined by the Jubilee administration. Omar, while defending the Deputy President, argued that Ruto has equally contributed to the management of the current government and should be valued for his input despite being criticized for faulty governance by the handshake movement. "If it is William Ruto that he is talking about indirectly or indirectly," said Omar in response to fellow panelist Charles Owino, "...as long as I sit around that ecosystem of the hustler nation, UDA, and he's our leader. I'm strongly against his resignation from this government." "This government was formed out of the sweat and blood of everybody who participated and the reason we tied a running mate to it has constitutional reasons that you are tied to the hip to your deputy." he added. The former lawmaker emphasized that the Deputy President is in office by right of law and it would be treasonable to exclude him from the government. "You cannot reap off your deputy's benefit and get your vote in putting his hard work and energy and then try to be treasonable or exclusive in terms of the management of government. Deputy President William Ruto is in government by right," he said. According to Owino, the former police spokesperson, said that it is a moral thing to dissociate from a government that one is not comfortable in. Using the period following the 2002 General Election as a point of comparison, the Siaya gubernatorial candidate argued that former Prime Minister Raila Odinga left the Ford-Kenya party after the party's performance deteriorated. "If you're in a government and you are annoyed the way you are annoyed and you feel the governent is not doing a good thing always the best thing is to leave that government and be a strong man," said Omar. "In 2003/2004 when Raila Odinga felt that his party Ford-Kenya was not doing well he just resigned and he left the party, went formed his party and came back to parliament there was that window," he added. Owino, who plans to run for governor of Siaya County on an ODM ticket, urged Kenyans to reject divisive politics and instead support unity and peace during the election season.