 ODM leader Raila Odinga has assured poll
losers under the Azimio la Umoja umbrella that they will be accommodated in his
government, imploring them not to leave the movement and join their opponents. Speaking during a series of meetings held with
Northern Kenya leaders under the Upya movement and a delegation from Kilifi
County on Wednesday, Odinga assured all aspirants that the nominations will be
transparent and that talks will be held between the affiliate parties. Odinga moved in to mediate a possible fallout
in the Azimio la Umoja family arising from the looming nominations and the
subsequent general election so as to settle on areas where other constituent
parties will not be allowed to field candidates. “We want to create an accommodative society
which brings everyone together. There will be opportunities for everybody. We
must have a win-win situation,” he said. “If you are not elected as MP or Governor
there will be a position for you moving forward. Let’s remain in the movement,
don’t run away and join our enemies.” Odinga continued to solidify his support base
as he sought partnerships with community leaders from different regions. During a second meeting with a delegation
from Kilifi County that pledged to support his State House bid, Odinga
addressed yet another elephant in the room; whether constituent political
parties in the Azimio la Umoja umbrella will field candidates against each
other. The ODM leader revealed that they were
considering zoning out areas for each party. “Eneo zingine
zitakuwa za ODM pekee yake, eneo zingine zitakuwa za jubilee, zingine tutafanya
mchujo pamoja alafu tutakubaliana kama ODM imepita ni ODM na Jubilee wote
watapigia huyo wa ODM kama ni Jubilee, hivo hivo,” he
explained. “Tunataka tuwe na
MCA wengi, wabunge, maseneta, magavana ndio tuweze kutawala sawa sawa.” Similarly, the former premier promised to
resolve the historical issues that have over the years impeded development in the
Northern part of Kenya saying it was time the region played an active role in
decision making. “We know issues of education, infrastructure,
livestock water, health and security…these are critical issues that need to be
dealt with,” Odinga said. Samburu MP Naisula Lesuuda and National
Treasury CS Ukur Yatani seconded Odinga’s remarks saying that they would
mobilize all the region leaders under Azimio. “This time when you have the raia and elected
leaders nini itatushinda
kama Azimio?” Posed Lessuda. Yatani added: “We want to deliver all MPs,
governors, MCAs, so that it will be your government headed by your people and
the people that voted for you.” The leaders pledged their support for
Odinga’s State House bid vowing to vote as a block. Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo also vowed to
unite the region and rally behind Odinga in his presidential bid. “Sisi
tumekaa chini kama wafugaji tukasema this time round we can’t be in
the cold…this time round we must be at the high table where decisions are made,
we have been second class citizens, leo
tumejipanga,” she said. Wajir Woman Rep Fatuma Gedi on her part said:
”Tumeongea mengi lakini ile Baba anataka twendeni ground we register our people
in big numbers, silaha ni kura, tukiwa na kura tutamsaidia.”