  Mudavadi claimed the OKA principals are cowards and
should open up to Kenyans that they were afraid of President Uhuru
Kenyatta. He insinuated that the walkout staged by Kalonzo Musyoka,
Gideon Moi and Cyrus Jirongo was fueled by the fact that they have been seeking
President Kenyatta's endorsement and thus did not want to shed a bad light. The ANC leader was speaking during a joint rally with Deputy
President William Ruto and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula in Bungoma
where they drummed up support for their newly-formed alliance. “Waliposkia DP anakuja pale Bomas, jamaa walitoroka mbio
wakisema staki kupatikana hapa nikipigwa picha itakua bad for optics. No, It is
not bad for optics, it is not bad being taken a photograph with another Kenyan
whether it is the DP or anyone else,“ Musalia said. “They were not running away because of bad optics; they were
running away because of Uhuru Kenyatta. Waliogopa Uhuru Kenyatta atawauliza
mlikua mnafanya nini kule na mnajua mnataka hivi.”  "Nobody should choose for us friends. We must have freedom of association, expression and freedom to choose the leaders we want for this country," said the ANC leader. Mudavadi further went ahead to indirectly accuse the head of state of imposing leaders on Kenyans. “I will spare his
name a very senior man in this government once told me; We cannot leave the
government to someone who is not pedigree. If we have pedigree in the country then
who are the mongrels,” he said. "Hatuwezi kuachiwa mamlaka Kenya hii; tunaweza kuachia tu
ngombe ya grade lakini hatuwezi kuachia ngombe ya kienyeji…sisi tumewekwa kwa ng’ombe
ya kienyeji,” he explained. Musalia exuded confidence that their new alliance with DP would emerge victorious, urging Kenyans to unite together against divisive leaders and
intimidating government.  “We are making a coalition for all Kenyans. It must be truly
a rainbow coalition that captures the breadth and width of the Kenyan nation.
We want it to start for freedom, we want to stand for democracy, justice and
economy ndio mueke pesa mfukoni,” Musalia stated.