 The United States reported nearly 1 million
new coronavirus infections on Monday, the highest daily tally of any country in
the world and nearly double the previous U.S. peak set a week ago as the spread
of the Omicron variant showed no signs of slowing. The number of hospitalized
COVID-19 patients has risen nearly 50% in the past week and now exceeds
100,000, according to data collected by Reuters, marking the first time that
threshold has been reached in a year. The latest surge, which forced
waves of cancellations from commercial airlines flights to Broadway shows in
recent weeks, was disrupting plans for public schools to welcome students back
from winter vacation. Chicago Public Schools, the
nation's third-largest school district, said it would cancel classes on
Wednesday after the teachers' union voted in favor of a return to remote
learning. In Los Angeles County, the
presiding judge of one of the country's largest court systems ordered a
two-week postponement of criminal trials due to the latest wave of infections. Nationally, the United States has
seen a daily average of 486,000 new cases over the past week, a rate that has
doubled in seven days and far outstrips that of any other country. The 978,856 new infections
documented on Monday included some cases tallied on Saturday and Sunday, when
many states do not report. The average number of U.S.
COVID-19 deaths has remained fairly steady throughout December and into early
January at about 1,300 a day, according to a Reuters tally, though deaths
typically lag behind case numbers and hospitalizations. Omicron appears to be far more
easily transmitted than previous iterations of the virus. The new variant was
estimated to account for 95.4% of cases identified in the United States as of
Jan. 1, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said on
Tuesday. The World Health Organization
said that evidence suggested Omicron is causing less severe illness.
Nevertheless, public health officials have warned that the sheer volume of
Omicron cases threatens to overwhelm hospitals, some of which are already
struggling to handle COVID-19 patients, primarily among the unvaccinated. Maryland Governor Larry Hogan
declared a 30-day state of emergency on Tuesday and mobilized 1,000 National
Guard members to pandemic response operations as COVID-19 hospitalizations in
the state hit a record high of more than 3,000, up more than five-fold in seven
weeks, Hogan said. "The truth is that the next
four to six weeks will be the most challenging time of the entire
pandemic," Hogan told reporters. He said projections show COVID
hospitalizations could surpass 5,000, far higher than Maryland's previous peak
of 1,952 last year. Delaware, Illinois, Ohio,
Virginia and Washington, D.C., have also reported record numbers of
hospitalized COVID patients in recent days. In Kentucky, where Tuesday's
total of 6,915 new cases was the highest daily figure since the start of the
pandemic, Governor Andy Beshear urged residents to get vaccinated and wear
masks. "Omicron is causing a surge
unlike anything we've seen and at this rate our hospitals will fill up,"
he wrote on Twitter. The unrelenting surge has
prompted more than 3,200 schools to close this week, according to the website
Burbio, which tracks school disruptions. Schools that have remained open are
facing staff shortages and renewed concerns about virus spread. In Boston, where more than 54,000
students returned to class on Tuesday following the holiday, Superintendent of
Schools Brenda Cassellius told reporters there were 1,000 staff members out,
including 461 teachers and 52 bus drivers. "It does make for a
difficult start to the day," she said. Rank-and-file members of the
Chicago Teachers Union voted 73% in favor of working remotely, after the
union's House of Delegates voted 88% in favor of the resolution. Earlier, the union urged its
members to stay out of the classroom and work remotely through Jan. 18, or
until the city reaches minimum health-safety thresholds set last year as a condition
for in-person learning, whichever comes first. The union has called for more
rigorous COVID-19 safety protocols, including school-based coronavirus testing
and mandatory student vaccinations. District chief executive officer
Pedro Martinez said the school system would agree to further COVID-19 safety
measures. But he said classes for Chicago's 340,000 students would be canceled
on Wednesday if teachers voted against reporting to work, with no remote
instruction being made immediately available. The union has cited data showing
that vaccination rates remained especially low among minority students - with
just 7% of Black youngsters and 13% of Latino children aged 5-11 fully
inoculated. But school officials said
hospitalization rates of children are low and that distance learning has hit
minority and poor students particularly hard, as many depend on school-based
meals and have working parents with fewer childcare options. Dr Allison Arwady, Chicago's
Public Health Commissioner, joined district officials and Mayor Lori Lightfoot
in pressing to keep classrooms open. Arwady cited data showing Chicago
averaging just seven pediatric COVID-19 hospitalizations a day out of 550,000
children who live in the city. More
than 325,000 COVID-19 cases among children were reported in the United States
for the week ending Dec. 30, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics
and the Children's Hospital Association, a new high and almost double the count
from the previous two weeks.