 Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader
Raila Odinga has hit out at Deputy President William Ruto faulting him for
dishing out false promises to Kenyans. Odinga criticized the deputy president saying
he has been, and still is, in power but instead of delivering on his promises from
the past election cycle, he is busy dispensing more pledges that he may never
fulfill. Speaking during a campaign rally at Thika
Stadium on Saturday, the ODM leader cited promises made by the DP in 2013 and
2017 such as free laptops to learners, stadiums in various counties and more jobs
to the youth which he said have not been honored. According to Odinga, it is now time for DP
Ruto to leave government and allow more capable people to come in and work for
the people. “Jamaa ya kutoa
ahadi, kila mara ahadi; alihahidi watoto wote laptops, hizo laptops alileta?
Aliahidi Wakenya ati kila mwaka kazi milioni moja. Sasa anasema milioni nne
anasahau alikua amesema milioni moja mpaka wakati huu hajatoa hio milioni moja.
Akija muulize iko wapi ile milioni moja ilienda wapi,” he said. “Ati anasema kazi
milioni ati handshake…umekuwa kwa serikali miaka nane kazi imekushinda. Toka
wacha Baba aonyeshe wewe vile kazi inafanywa.” The former premier downplayed DP Ruto’s promises
and the hustler narrative terming them as unrealistic and inconsistent to
Kenyans. Odinga compared the laptops prior promised by
the DP with the current wheelbarrow campaigns saying that it was just double
standards. “Sasa
amesema ni wheelbarrows. Sasa kama ulikua umeahidi watoto laptops, ambayo ni IT,
unawaahidi wheelbarrow ya kufanyia nini?” Odinga posed. Odinga consequently warned Thika residents
against falling victims to the DP’s new promises, instead urging them to first
hold him to account for previous ones. He further lashed at the DP over his
perceived extravagant church donations and harambee contributions, questioning
his source of wealth. “Wakishaiba
hiyo pesa yenu, anakuja nayo kwenu sasa anasema anataka kufanya harambee kwa
kundi la vijana, kwa kundi la kina mama, anaingia kwa kanisa kufanya
harambee…..hiyo ni unafiki,” Odinga stated. While exuding confidence in clinching the
presidential seat in August, Odinga vowed to lawfully oversee the prosecution
of all corrupt leaders and seal all graft loopholes. “Hawa jamaa tutawapeleka Kamiti…wanafikiria Wakenya
ni wajinga,” Odinga said. Odinga also used the rally as a chance to
sell his Azimio la Umoja agenda to Thika residents, where he listed his government’s
key focus as smart agriculture, health
program, as well as a social protection fund. He went forth to defend his social protection
fund that entails giving a Ksh.6,000 monthly stipend to low income homes, which
has since attracted a lot of criticism from opponents who have termed it as not
achievable. Odinga reaffirmed the certainty of his
program noting that it was centered on boosting the livelihoods of the less
fortunate. “Kuna kitu inaitwa
social protection fund ya kusaidia jamii ambazo utapata hakuna mtu ameajiriwa
watakuwa wanapata kila mwezi elfu sita,” Odinga
explained. “You have heard TangaTanga guys saying I’m
promising handouts; that is not handouts it is a necessity to sustain lives, it
is not handouts.”