 Over the last two days debate has been raging over the unprecedented shortage of chips at KFC outlets in the country apparently occasioned by delay in delivery of potatoes by the food chain's overseas suppliers. A section of Kenyans have questioned why KFC cannot give local farmers the tenders to supply potatoes or support the value chain in one way or the other. Due to global standards, KFC does not source its potatoes locally but instead imports them in large quantities of pre-cut sliced blanched and frozen potatoes. Amid the ongoing controversy, KFC on Tuesday issued a statement saying there could be an opportunity to source potatoes from local farmers should they meet its global standards. "Although we currently import our French fries, there is an opportunity to source the potatoes from a local supplier that meets the global KFC quality and safety specifications in the near future," KFC said in a statement. KFC, however, noted that at the moment it works with local suppliers on certain items. "At KFC Kenya, we work with a number of local Kenyan suppliers to serve our customers locally sourced produce and ingredients in our restaurants. These currently include core items including our poultry; fresh vegetables; bread buns; packaging; flour and ice cream to name a few," said the food chain. Meanwhile, the National Potato Council of Kenya (NPCK) has weighed in on the debate saying it is willing and capable of introducing new potato varieties in the country amid rising demand for diversified types of the produce among local eateries. According
to NPCK, Kenya’s lands are rich and fertile enough to support different potato strains since local farmers are already cultivating approximately 62 varieties of the food crop. “With
proper arrangement and planning, all potato varieties can be introduced in Kenya.
The Potato Council is willing to support the introduction of new potato varieties
and help farmers produce them,” NPCK CEO Wachira Kaguongo told the Standard in an interview. NCPK’s
main responsibility is to help plan, organize and co-ordinate potato value
chain activities with the aim of developing the sub-sector into a competitive
and self-regulated industry. While
calling on the government to support the cultivation of the food crop, Kaguongo highlighted that it was not practical for the government to allow
Kenyan businesses to import potatoes owing to exaggerated costs when they are locally readily available. “Importation
is expensive and Kenya is losing currency and therefore I would encourage
them (eateries) to work with the local industry so that we can supply. Our
farmers can supply to the entire world. Kenya is known to produce good quality
produce,” the NPCK boss added. The famous food joint known
for its 'Finger Lickin’ Good' slogan earlier on Monday took to social media to
apologise for the inconvenience caused to customers and announce alternatives such as Ugali and snack buns that were added to their menus, to accompany chicken meals, as the eatery works to resolve its current predicament.