 Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has affirmed that his dream to contest for the presidency sometime in the future remains intact despite abandoning his 2022 bid in favour of ODM leader Raila Odinga’s on Monday. The governor, who is currently serving his second and final term in office, says that despite not having the numbers at the moment, time is still on his side as such he will continue growing his following before making a serious attempt at the presidency once Raila Odinga, who he expects to be victorious at the August polls, finishes his term as Head of State. “I am now 67 years and I believe that Raila will win and he would have to complete his term and when he does that we will prepare. There are several people he will mentor and groom and we will prepare so that we can work towards the presidency after him,” Governor Kibwana said on the Monday Report show. While reiterating that launching a presidential bid should be a well-calculated move not done on a whim, the Makueni Governor urged Kenyans, who expected him to contest for the country’s top seat this year, to support Odinga citing that the former premier will implement his vision owing to the fact that they share the same ideologies. “That is really something I am considering and it takes a while we know how long it took Kibaki so I have never stood but time is on my side and all I can say is to appreciate the Kenyans who believe I can make a difference. I will let those numbers grow and I will urge them to support Odinga because I will try to make the ideas go through in the next government,” Kibwana said. The Makueni Governor similarly dispelled rumours doing rounds on social media claiming that he is eyeing Makueni County’s senatorial seat at the August-slated General Elections. According to Kibwana, the idea was mooted to him by a section of Makueni elders during a meeting, but it is one that he is not planning to follow through with. “I think that issue of the Senator there is a political background to it because I come from Kibwezi West and there are actually three candidates from Kibwezi West and East. If I become a senator that would jeopardise their candidatures. I would negate these other three candidatures then it would be a walkover," he added After 45 years in politics, Kibwana however admitted that he might look at options but he, however, will not go out of his way to pursue them instead his focus, for now, remains on supporting Odinga.