Just how rich was the late industrialist
Chris Kirubi, you ask? Well, let me put it into context: In June 2013, then U.S President Barack Obama
was on a tour of three African countries and when he landed in the neighbouring
Tanzania, he invited Kirubi over there for a meeting. That’s a meeting anybody would kill for, but
not Kirubi. The media mogul issued a public statement turning down President
Obama’s invite. Question: Do you know how rich you need to be
to shoot down the Head of State of the most powerful country in the world with
a “No, Thanks”? Answer: Kirubi rich! Forbes, during a past profile of Kirubi,
listed him as being worth about $300 million (over Ksh.34 billion); but court
papers now say that he could have been worth around Ksh.20 billion. That the billionaire was a man who loved the
finer things in life is in no doubt, which is why it would only make sense that
he drove around in some of the most expensive cars money could buy. The court records reveal that the late
businessman owned at least six vehicles worth around Ksh.108 million, among
them: Mercedes Benz Maybach S500 (Ksh.29 million), Bentley GT (Ksh.28 million),
and a Range Rover (Ksh.25. 6 million). Kirubi also reportedly owned land worth over
Ksh.3 billion in such areas as Loresho (Ksh.2 billion), Kwale (Ksh.111
million), as well as two other Ksh.60 million properties in Muthaiga and
Mtwapa. The business magnate held shares in numerous companies
across various industries, these include KCB (Ksh.1.6 billion), Haco Industries
(4.5 million shares worth Ksh.801 million), and Bendor Estate Limited (Ksh.5.6
billion). He also had shares in Smart Applications
International Limited (Ksh.641 million), Two Rivers Development (Ksh.214
million), and Bayer East Africa (Ksh.1.8 billion). Other companies in which the mogul held
six-figure shares included Kenya Re, Kenya Airways, Mumias Sugar Company,
Diamond Trust. The court documents stated that he had two
accounts, one holding about Ksh.3 billion and a second with Ksh.177 million. Kirubi, in his will, left 80 per cent of his
estate to his son Robert Kirubi and daughter Mary Anne Kirubi. The two have
however mutually agreed to give 9.95% of their shares to Kirubi’s second
daughter Fiona Wambui Kirubi, who had only been bequethed Ksh. 4 million in the
will.  The late businessman left the remaining 20
per cent of his estate to his siblings; brothers Anthony Maina and Dr. Michael
Kirubi, and sisters Elizabeth Waithera and Salome Mburu.