Deputy President William Ruto has, in a fresh
series of attacks against his political nemesis, accused Orange Democratic
Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga of what he termed as political
conmanship. The DP chewed out the handshake co-partner claiming
his intention on the race to State House is centered on driving the country
into chaos.  DP Ruto referred to Odinga as a political
conman whom he alleged had over the years instigated violence that led to
economic losses in the country. Speaking on Saturday at Thiba North Grounds
in Mwea, Kirinyaga County, Ruto cautioned Kenyans against electing the Azimio la
Umoja frontman in the forthcoming polls claiming he is unreliable. “Kenya cannot afford the kitendawili project,
it is too expensive for this nation. Kwa sababu tukiangalia nyuma ile hasara
tumepata kwa sababu ya hiyo mambo hatuwezi kukubali kuweka taifa letu mahali
ambapo tutakuwa tunaendesha tukirudi nyuma,” he said. “Ile hasara tumepata kwa mambo ya kitendawili
haihesabiki…Kwa sababu ya kitendawili serikali yetu ilisambaratika, chama cha
Jubilee kikasambaratika, Big 4 ilikwama, mambo ya upinzani ilisambaratika, haiwezekani!” The DP went forth to apportion blame to
Odinga over the fallout within the now defunct coalitions of CORD (2013) and
NASA (2018) accusing him of betraying his co-principals who have since dismissed
his presidential bid. “Hana marafiki, alikuwa kule CORD, akatapeli
watu wa CORD, akaenda kule NASA, akatapeli Kalonzo, Wetangula na Mudavadi, na
ata saa hii ametapeli Uhuru Kenyatta,” said Ruto. The country’s second-in-command warned President
Kenyatta over his pact with the ODM chief telling him it will come to naught. “We are telling the president to spare us the
kitendawili experiment, spare us the kitendawili project, the country of Kenya
cannot afford the kitendawili project. Sisi tunamuunga mkono rais lakini
project ya kitendawili haiwezekani katika Kenya,” he stated. “This country will be destroyed when we have
the kitendawili project because his track record is littered with destruction,
deceit and conmanship.” He further adde: “Rais Uhuru tunampenda ndio
maana tulimchagua. Nilianza kumpigia kura Uhuru Kenyatta 2002, na kila wakati
amesimama nimempigia kura kama rafiki yangu. Kama Uhuru ako na rafiki mkubwa
Kenya hii ambaye amesimama na yeye anaitwa William Ruto.”  The DP held a joint rally with his newfound
partners Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Ford-Kenya’s Moses Wetangula as they
drummed up support for their alliance.