 The National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse (NACADA) has denounced the directive by Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha requiring high school students to undergo a mandatory drug test. In a statement issued on Thursday, the authority criticized the exercise as illegal and further clarified that NACADA is not involved in any drug testing. “There is currently no law in the country making drug testing mandatory for learners,” NACADA CEO Victor Okioma said. “When conducted, drug testing should be part of a comprehensive intervention program and thus should not be used as a sole solution to the problem of alcohol and substance abuse in institutions of learning,” he added. NACADA, instead, urged school administrations to use “evidence-based approach” in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse among students. “The window of detection varies amongst drugs thus some may not show up during testing. It should, therefore, not be used as a deterrent measure as a negative test does not necessarily mean that the student is not using drugs or alcohol,” stated Okioma. “Drug testing is recommended as part of incident management and it should be within a licensed and accredited facility.” Last month, CS Magoha said the tests would be vital in identifying errant students before isolating them to ensure schools run smoothly. “The problem we are facing now starts at home. We have children who are being given everything they ask for at home and when they come to school, they expect to get the same treatment,” said Magoha. NACADA joins the growing list of parties against the exercise which was first piloted at Maranda School. Educationists, parents, teachers and lawyers on Thursday castigated the directive, terming it as a violation of the children's rights and their privacy. “The exercise violates various sections of the Constitution that touch on the right to privacy, children's rights and discrimination, and must be stopped. It is an unnecessary intrusion on children’s lives,” Lawyer Ken Echesa stated. Echesa argued that government engagement with the learners would be more beneficial as compared to the tests which even if turned out to be negative would alter their behavioural change and victimize them. The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) national chairperson Omboko Milemba on his part stated that the Ministry should halt the illegal process terming it 'unprofessional'. “This act is unprofessional, unconstitutional and illegal. It is also not in line with the training of children; it violates the Children’s Act and must be stopped," Milemba said. Parents consequently called for the process to be stopped noting that it was not a voluntary exercise and their consent was not called for.