Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader
Raila Odinga and his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka’s camps are secretly
hatching a scheme to unveil a mega coalition that will challenge Deputy
President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza Alliance at the August general elections. As it stands, Odinga is the recognized
flag-bearer of the Azimio la Umoja political outfit while Kalonzo has been the
prominent figure of the One Kenya Alliance (OKA), even more so following the
exit of Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford-Kenya
boss Moses Wetangula, who in January partnered with DP Ruto. With the polls predicted to be a two-horse
race between Odinga and DP Ruto, many believe that OKA will join the Azimio
camp, but the coalition’s principals have largely remained mum on what their
next political move will be. A new report by the Nation newspaper
published on Thursday however states that a committee, comprising of Odinga and
Musyoka’s representatives, is currently hashing out the aforementioned
coalition deal. “The two leaders are talking to each other
directly but also have a very lean team of trusted allies who are spearheading
the negotiations,” a source from Musyoka’s inner circle told the daily. “In fact, the talks have been accelerated
with the exit of Mudavadi and Wetangula.” According to the source, the talks are being
led by Ngovi Kitau, Kenya’s Ambassador to Korea, and city lawyer Paul Mwangi,
who are close allies of the Wiper boss and the former premier respectively. “We’ve had some meetings but no deal yet.
That’s all for now,” Kitau told the Nation when asked about the ongoing talks. Mwangi also dismissed the coalition reports labelling
them as false. Odinga’s campaign board CEO Elizabeth Meyo however neither
denied nor acknowledged the speculation, citing that Odinga was reaching out to
all Kenyans to join his Azimio la Umoja movement.  “We, therefore, cannot comment on which
specific Kenyans he is engaging with, as this will become clearer as we move
along,” Meyo said.