 The leaders who were speaking in Tongaren, were led by UDA party leader DP William Ruto, who claimed that the DAP party is a puppet project by their competitors aimed at splitting the Western vote. DP Ruto said the DAP- K party only exists as an ODM party splinter because the defense CS Wamalwa is not capable of forming a political party. "Kuna watu wachache wanatumiwa kututengenisha, wametengenezwa chama,"  the second-in-command said. "Ni chama ya ukora hiyo ni ODM wakuje Na ODM we face with them mundu khu mundu. Eugene na Eseli wanaweza kutegeneza chama kweli?" According to Wetangula, the DAP party tried to take-over Ford Kenya unsuccessfully, and is now running helter skelter as the August polls near. He claimed those who were behind the drama that beleaguered the Ford-Kenya in the last two years have now decamped to DAP- K. "Chama chetu cha Ford-Kenya kimeyumbishwa, saa hii they are running helter skelter," Wetangula said. "Walivuruga chama sasa wamehama na tunawaambia tutakutana, Hatutakubali mambo ya Raila tena, tumechoka ametudanganya ya kutosha DAP-K is ODM B," ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi also present, trained his guns on DAP-K patron Eugene Wamalwa, claiming the Defence Cabinet Secretary was not being honest. The 2022 presidential hopeful appeared to refer to remarks by  Western leaders who accused him of betraying the Luhya Nation by joining forces with the deputy president. Mudavadi claims that in 2013 he was approached by President Kenyatta with an offer to join the government, but instead, asked the Head of State to give the available slot to Eugene Wamalwa. "Eugene Wamalwa anatembea akisema yeye ni patron wa DAP-K lakini kama anaamini Mungu aje akane kwamba President Uhuru alitupea nafasi tuwe katika serikali yake. Nilimwachia Eugene kwasababu nilitaka kubaki independent," Mudavadi said. According to Mudavadi, President Uhuru is planning to extend his tenure in office by having a team he can control take over from him. "Azimio ni project, patron wa Azimio ni Uhuru Kenyatta, na project ingine ni Raila, na sasa wanataka wateue ule atakuwa deputy wa Raila, na Uhuru yeye abaki pale kama patron," Mudavadi added. "Yaani atafanya remote control azidi kuongoza serikali na wale vibaraka wamekaa pale hawajui nini inaendelea," 