Two men are currently in police custody awaiting arraignment
after they were caught masquerading as Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission
(EACC) officials on Thursday. The duo; Gordwins Agutu and David Mburu, are said to have
stormed the WanderJoy Party headquarters along Kiambu road demanding an
audience with proprietor Isaac Andere over a purported land fraud case. The pair, who arrived at the scene in a convoy of high-end
vehicles and other persons yet to be apprehended, is alleged to have asked
Andere for a bribe in order to overlook the said fraud case. “The self-styled anti-graft director (Agutu) and his
accomplice Mburu, who introduced himself as the anti-corruption deputy
director, went straight to Wandere’s office and made their demands without
blinking an eye,” the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said in a
statement. Detectives based at DCI headquarters however got wind of the
situation and rushed to the premises which is approximately 2 kilometres away
from the sleuths headquarters. “Immediately after they arrived, the men who had accompanied
Agutu and sealed off the compound posing as VVIP security detail while flashing
walkie talkies, scampered for dear life leaving their master and his deputy in
the hands of our sleuths,” DCI added. According to the DCI, Agutu has a  history of impersonating senior officials
from various government bodies. He was previously arrested in 2017 for posing
as a Senior Superintendent attached to the DCI “In his possession were two other employment cards, all
indicating that he held senior management positions at the Kenya Revenue
Authority and Kenya Pharmacy and Poisons Board,” the DCI said. “While masquerading as a surveillance officer in the
Pharmacy and Poisons Board, the suspect is alleged to have closed down several
hospitals for allegedly not meeting certain regulatory requirements.”  Agutu and his accomplices are also accused of trying to
abduct Sidai Oleng club owner John Ngugi on January 26, 2022, in an almost
identical incident. Persons who might have fallen victim to the syndicate have
been advised to file their reports at the DCI's Serious Crimes Unit.