 The country's second-in-command, speaking at a rally in Baringo on Sunday, said that leaders should not be nepotistic and appoint their members to state jobs whenever a vacancy arises, and that minority leaders should be given equal opportunity. "Wewe tayari ni mkubwa, wewe unachukua ndugu yako na unampatia kazi. That culture must stop in Kenya, we must have a country that share opportunity evenly so that even the minority can be part of the decision making process in our country," said Ruto. While stating that his government will prioritize minorities, he also stated that if he is elected president in August, he will include them in the forefront of government affairs in order to equalize minorities' representation in the country. "We are committing that we are going to escalate to a fully-fledged commission on matters minorities so that the issue of minorities can be brought to the center of government and minorities stop living in the fringes of our society and they are incorporated properly in all the affairs of the republic of Kenya," he posed. "Kama Kenya Kwanza tumekubaliana kwamba mahali popote kuna wabunge wa county na wakitaifa, tutahakikisha kwamba minorities wamapata nafasi katika bunge ya county na ya kitaifa." DP Ruto also stated that he will address the lingering issue of insecurity in the region, promising to improve the security apparatus and bring in efficient resources to combat crime. "Hii region yote ambapo watu wanatusumbua na mambo ya uwizi wa mifugo. It will be our priority kama kenya kwanza kuhakikisha kwamba ile matatizo yoyote inaleta mambo ya insecurity hapa tutatatua na tuweke usalama wa kweli. Na usalama wa kweli ni ule unaletwa na maendeleo." Ruto was flanked by members of the Kenya kwanza outfit Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetangula (FORD-Kenya), Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, (Elgeyo-Marakwet),  Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka-Nithi) MPs Aden Duale (Garissa), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Ndindi Nyoro ( Kiharu), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) among other leaders. 