Makueni
County Governor Kivutha Kibwana on Friday opened up on his decision to shelve
his presidential aspirations in favour of ODM leader Raila Odinga’s. Speaking at
the Bomas of Kenya during the NARC National Delegates Convention (NDC), Kibwana
took a walk down memory lane recaounting the main factors he says led to the
endorsement of the country’s previous presidents. He cited
that Odinga had been integral in the enactment of the 2010 constitution,
devolution and human rights advocacy. This, Kibwana says, drew him to Odinga’s
camp. “For Jomo
Kenyatta the consensus was built through his fight for independence. Daniel
Moi’s was through succession while Mwai Kibaki’s was because of a battered
economy. For Uhuru, the consensus was that he restores the fractured peace that
followed the post-election violence,” the governor said. “For Raila,
the consensus that has been built is because of your fight for the second
liberation, your persistence in endorsing the 2010 constitution and devolution.
It is also common knowledge that you are also a human rights advocate.” Kibwana
went on to say that Odinga’s long political career has seen him morph into a
seasoned politician who is only interested in the wellbeing of Kenya and not
divisive politics. He likewise
labelled Odinga as a consensus builder owing to the fact that he publicly
challenged the late president Moi’s dictator-like leadership during the peak of
his powers, which at the time often proved perilous. “You
thought change was possible from within but other problems followed and soon
after you endorsed Kibaki to succeed Moi,” Kibwana explained. “When you
were a Prime Minister you and Kibaki performed an economic miracle and if you
were part of the miracle then you are now going to give us the stability that
we need as a country.” The Makueni
Governor equally glorified Odinga for allegedly not endorsing corruption
following his release from detention, ordered by then President Moi in
1982. “We
ulifungwa miaka minane na ulikuwa unaulizwa kwa nini we ni mgumu? Kwanini
tusikae hapa na kuna mali? Lakini ukasema unataka wakenya wote wapate mali na
maisha mazuri,” the governor said. Kibwana
likewise lauded Odinga for being a recognized world leader who has brushed
shoulders with a myriad of regional and international leaders stating that the
country’s affairs would be safe under the former premier’s leadership. “Most of
the senior people in this country have worked with you without exception as
such you will be able to select the best team to lead the economy,” the Makueni
governor added. He also
praised Odinga for staying in touch with Kenya’s history post-independence and
for effectively implementing development projects during different tenures in
various government dockets. “In your
long political career you have executed real work whether it is in roads,
energy. When you were PM you coordinated all the ministries and during Kibaki’s
era we recorded very good results,” Kibwana said.