Austria
became the first country in Europe to introduce a national Covid-19 vaccine
mandate for adults on Friday after President Alexander Van der Bellen signed it
into law. Austria's
sweeping measures will see those without a vaccine certificate or an exemption
potentially slapped with initial fines of 600 euros ($680). Checks to see if
the mandate is being adhered to begin from March 15. Pregnant
people and those who cannot be vaccinated without endangering their health are
exempt from the law, according to the Austrian Health Ministry's website. The
exemption also applies to people who recently caught Covid-19, and lasts 180
days from the date they received their first positive PCR Covid-19 test. The
new law will last until January 31, 2024 and could see unvaccinated people face
a maximum fine of 3,600 euros ($4,000) up to four times a year if they are not
on a vaccine register by their assigned vaccination date. German
Chancellor Olaf Scholz is pushing for a vaccine mandate as part of the
country's Covid-19 containment strategy, and a key vote on a potential vaccine
mandate is expected at the end of March. Both
Germany and Austria have higher vaccination rates than the European Union
average of 70.4% with two jabs, according to data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. But their
immunization rate, of 74% and 72.7% respectively, has not assuaged the concerns
of health officials. Legislation
has already passed requiring vaccines for healthcare workers starting in March. Germany
has Europe's second oldest population after Italy. On January 28, German Health
Minister and epidemiologist Karl Lauterbach warned that the elderly population
needed protection as many in those age groups remain unvaccinated. There
are four times as many unvaccinated Germans compared to the United Kingdom, and
three times as many unvaccinated Germans compared to Italy, he added. Lothar
Wieler, head of Germany's infectious diseases agency the Robert Koch Institute
(RKI), warned at the same press conference that hospitals and intensive care
units are starting to fill up again as Covid-19 infections reached record
highs. On
Friday, the country reported a record 248,838 new cases. Vaccines
and no restrictions As
some European countries get tough with mandates, others are dropping Covid-19
regulations despite a surge in cases fueled by the Omicron variant. Many
of their leaders point to vaccines breaking the link between infections and
severe illness. Denmark,
where 81.5% of the population is double-jabbed, lifted all Covid-19
restrictions on Tuesday despite soaring cases. "At
the same time as infections are skyrocketing, [the number of] patients admitted
to intensive care [is] actually going down," Søren Brostrøm,
director-general of Denmark's Health Authority, told CNN. "It's around 30 people in ICU beds right now
with a Covid-19 diagnosis, out of a population of 6 million." Other
Nordic countries, like Norway, Sweden and Finland, announced the lifting of
many of their Covid control measures this week, pointing to their highly
vaccinated populations and low hospitalization figures. The
decision was taken in Norway based on the impact of the Omicron variant, Prime
Minister Jonas Gahr Stør said Tuesday, noting the variant was causing less
severe illness, helped along by the country's successful vaccination rollout. Sweden,
where only 70.4% of the population has had two shots, is set to remove most
Covid-19 restrictions next week, officials said on Thursday. After
initially eschewing the lockdowns favored by its European neighbors, Sweden
eventually imposed restrictions on public life. Restrictions were most recently
tightened in early January when a curfew was imposed on Swedish bars and
restaurants.  According
to Thursday's press release, Swedish officials have now deemed the Covid-19
situation "stable enough" to commence the ease of restrictions. This
was justified by the fact that Omicron has not caused "as serious a
disease as previous variants'' and the country's healthcare system has not been
severely impacted, it added.