Wiper
party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has hinted at working with ODM leader Raila Odinga
ahead of the August polls. Addressing
meetings in Nyamira and Kisii on Thursday, Kalonzo said they are holding talks
to form a formidable team to win the general elections in the first round. Kalonzo,
who was in the company of three Members of Parliament during the One Kenya
Alliance (OKA) campaign trail, confirmed that they are indeed in talks with the
Azimio la Umoja team to join hands ahead of the August polls. “I can assure you we’re
talking to like-minded leaders…and in particular, I’ve made it clear, we’re
talking to President Uhuru Kenyatta...you may be thinking he’s going away, but
he’s busy strengthening Jubilee. Everybody knows the story of me and Raila
Odinga, ten political years,” said Kalonzo. The
former Vice President said he is ready to work with Odinga for the third time
as their partnership in 2013 and 2017 proved that they’re the best bet for the
country. “Mnakumbuka mara mbili tumeshinda tena hatukushinda…hii
ni siasa aina gani? Safari hii tunataka tushinde raundi moja dunia nzima ijue
tumeshinda…kwa hivyo tunazungumza wazi,” he said. Leaders
who accompanied Kalonzo said they are in support of the talks to work with
Azimio la Umoja who share the same vision of strengthening devolution and
reviving the economy; they dismissed the Kenya Kwanza alliance. Borabu MP Ben Momanyi said: “Wewe Mudavadi ulidanganywa
na nani my friend? Rudi nyumbani mahali ulikuwa…pale bungeni mahali niko, wabunge
wake wameenda wote, wabunge wa Wetangula wameenda wote…sasa ata mahali wameenda
ni baggage tu, hakuna kitu hapo.” Wiper Vice Chairman Victor Swanya said: “Sisi kama
OKA tutaungana na wale wengine ili tuwe na super alliance kwa sababu mambo ya
bottom up hatuendi…wale tunajua hali yao.” Kalonzo
welcomed Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri who ditched Ford-Kenya and joined the Wiper
party together with over 10 Members of County Assemblies (MCAs). The
planned merger of One Kenya Alliance and Azimio la Umoja will consolidate the
coalition vote basket in the Ukambani region where three governors have already
rallied behind Raila Odinga’s presidential bid.  The
OKA team is on Friday expected to attend the Narc Kenya National Delegates Conference
(NDC) in Nairobi.