Kenya Power is losing over Ksh.200 million
every month in revenue in the Central Rift region due to illegal connections
and vandalism of transformers and conductors, it has emerged. Naivasha, Nakuru, Njoro and Mai
Mahiu have been identified as the most affected areas, though cases of
vandalism targeting transformers are said to have gone down since President
Uhuru Kenyatta banned scrap metal business. This was revealed as tens of
families were left in darkness in Sakutiek trading center on the border of
Nakuru and Narok counties following a sting operation targeting illegal
connections. Kenya Power officials acted on a tip-off
which established that many of the homes were illegally connected to
electricity. Kenya Power has since established
that over 60 homes are illegally connected and will be disconnected to allow
consumers to engage the power supplier in order to get electricity legally. During the operation, it emerged that some of
the families had paid over Ksh. 200,000 to get electricity supply, which turned
out to be illegal. One of the area residents, Eunice
Nguruna, narrated how she sold part of her livestock and paid over Ksh. 150,000
to people masquerading as Kenya Power officials in order to get
electricity. Another victim, Denis Kamwaro,
called on Kenya Power to engage them afresh so that power supply can be
restored to their businesses and homes. Speaking during the operation,
the company’s business manager in Nakuru County Engineer Henry Pwani said that
they had upped their operations targeting illegal connections. According to Pwani, the
electricity bills in the Central Rift region stood at Ksh.1.4 billion per month
but a 23 per cent commercial loss was recorded due to illegal connections. In Nakuru, Pwani said, Kenya
Power's monthly billing for consumers stands at approximately Ksh.900 million
but a 23 per cent loss has also been similarly been registered, which the power
provider is keen to address. On vandalism, Pwani noted that between
July and December last year, Nakuru County lost 43 transformers worth over Ksh.20
million leading to massive losses for the company. He however noted that the cases
had dwindled since President Kenyatta banned scrap metal business following an
increase in vandalism targeting electricity infrastructures.