According to the regulatory agency, the film violates Kenyan
laws by airing inappropriate content that the board says is unsuitable for its audience. In a statement on Monday, KFCB said the film had been scrapped
from all media outlets within the country’s borders and any broadcast of the same would be
a violation of the law. KFCB labelled the film 'restricted' which according to its provisions means it
is 'prohibited from exhibition, distribution, possession or broadcasting within
the Republic of Kenya.' “While this film is acceptable in its country of origin,
India, the Board has rated it as RESTRICTED in Kenya as it propagates a worldview
that is in dissonance with our constitution, culture, values and norms and
could easily expose vulnerable consumers to perversion,” read the statement by the board’s acting CEO Christopher Wambua. “On this score, any films or broadcast content appearing to
legalize, advocate, normalize or glorify the act contravenes the laws of our
land. The film is, therefore, unacceptable and an affront to our culture and
identity as Kenyans.” The regulatory body noted that ‘Bodhaal Do’ intentionally
sought to set an agenda of same-sex relationships as acceptable in society. The board argued that since Kenya as a country treats
homosexuality as a criminal offence, any attempt to broadcast the film would be
disregarding beliefs and stipulations of the penal code. “According to Article 45 of the Constitution of Kenya
(2010), marriage is defined as a union between persons of the opposite sex.
Sections 162, 163 and 165 of the Penal Code criminalizes homosexual behaviour,”
stated Wambua. It added: “Gay and lesbian characters in the film explicitly
seek to normalize their feelings for each other and ultimately convince their
families to embrace and empathize with them.” “The film in question, therefore, overtly disregards our
laws, constitution and sensibilities as a people. Moreover, the film tries to
directly influence the viewer into believing that homosexuality is a normal way
of life.” KFCB which is also mandated to control cultural practices
such as drug and substance abuse, propagandas of war, incitement and hate speech among leaders noted a recent upsurge of these cases in the media. As the political temperatures in the country continue to
heat up, media outlets and politicians have been cautioned against violating these
provisions. “The Board has noted a worrying trend where audio-visual
content bordering on political incitement and hate speech is being produced,
uploaded and peddled on social media platforms in blatant breach of the
provisions of Article 33 and 34 of the Constitution of Kenya (2010) and KFCB's
Film Classification Guidelines,” read the statement. “In this regard, content creators are reminded to strictly
adhere to the provisions of the Films and Stage Plays and other laws.” As KFCB remains confident of its commitment to safeguarding
the rule of law and monitoring media content, citizens are implored to be vigilant
against such violations.  “The Board urges content creators, the media and the public
to be cautious of the content they upload or share on social media since
freedom is not absolute. Freedom of expression must be premised on
responsibility,” Wambua explained.