President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Chief of Staff
Nzioka Waita has reaffirmed that he will this month step down from his capacity
to pursue a career in politics. Waita, speaking on Citizen TV’s NewsNight
show on Tuesday, disclosed that he would be contesting for the Machakos County
gubernatorial seat come the August polls. "I will work till the 9th of February at
5 am. I will then make a farewell call to the president and ask for his
blessings and support as well as thank him for allowing me to work for the people of
Kenya in his service,” he said. Despite admitting that he will not stray far
from President Kenyatta, Waita said that it is now his duty to convince
the people of Machakos to vote for him at the polls and that their resources
will be safe in his hands. He similarly reaffirmed that the Head of
State’s development legacy agenda is firmly on track contrary to what is being
purported by his critics. According to Waita, who has been President
Kenyatta’s Chief of Staff since 2016, the Head-of-State has made significant
investments into different sectors of Kenya’s economy, securing the country’s
future as a development trailblazer in the East African region. “It is beginning to look like take off. We
have gone through an extremely difficult time of heavy investments that has
taken its toll on the public exchequer but those investments have set the
country on the trajectory for growth. They are investments that position our
economy for sustainable but increased growth,” Waita said. “Like any scorecard, there will be successes
and failures. If you look at employment, we were growing steadily at around
800,000 formal jobs per year, still not absorbing what was in the market, but
we were able to generate significant number of permanent and temporary jobs for
people coming into the working environment.” While insisting that the effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic on the country’s economy should not be taken lightly, Waita
highlighted how critical infrastructure in areas such as Health did not collapse in the
wake of the pandemic owing to significant investments made in the sector. “COVID-19 devastated our economy and were it
not for some of the investments and the fiscal prudence of the Treasury, CBK and
the leadership of President Kenyatta, we would not have managed to come out
unscathed,” he
explained. Waita, who rated the President’s service
delivery at 70 percent, similarly defended President Kenyatta’s decision to
invest heavily in transport infrastructure during his second term in office,
citing that Kenya had failed to capitalize on many opportunities owing largely
to logistics constraints.