 CS Keter was one of the public officials expected to resign in order to align themselves with the upcoming elections. Keter thanked the president for the opportunity to serve as cabinet secretary for Energy and Petroleum as well as Devolution during a press conference on Tuesday where he announced his resignation. He was flanked by a smattering of MPs from Kericho, as he hung his boots at the Devolution Ministry, where he has held fort since October last year. "I wish to sincerely thank the president for giving me the opportunity to serve in his cabinet since 2016," CS Keter said during a press conference. "With a lot of humility I want to reiterate my appreciation to the president for the honour bestowed on me," The candidate for the 2022 Kericho governorship also let the cat out of the bag, revealing that he will run on a United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket. "I have competitors, I have never been to an election without competition, I'm ready for it, and its obvious I'm in UDA, I will be supporting the deputy president all the way ," Keter added. Keter, who is no stranger to politics, outlined his accomplishments, noting that during his time as Energy Minister, access to electricity increased by 75% and electricity generation increased to 2900 megawatts. The CS stated that his experience as a politician, as well as the opportunity to serve in various ministries, have provided him with the necessary know-how to transform Kericho into a success model. A number of Cabinet Secretaries, Chief Administrative Secretaries, and Public Servants are expected to resign from their positions and enter the political arena between Tuesday and Wednesday.. At least seven Cabinet Secretaries in President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration have political ambitions at the moment. They include Devolution CS Charles Keter eyeing the Kericho governor’s seat, Mining and Petroleum Chief Administrative Secretary John Musonik who wants to be the Bomet governor, and Agriculture CS Peter Munya eyeing the Meru governor's seat, and Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mungaro, who wants to succeed Amason Kingi as Kilifi governor. Others include Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, who wants to reclaim the top job in Marsabit County, Petroleum CS John Munyes, Labor CS Simon Chelugui, and Infrastructure CAs Chris Obure.