Former Water Cabinet Secretary (CS) Sicily Kariuki has dismissed
perceptions that the influence of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party, in
the Mt. Kenya region, has been thinning ahead of the August General Elections. Kariuki on Wednesday threw herself into the political
arena after resigning from her State position in line with a directive from the Independent Electoral
and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). She is seeking to contest for
Nyandarua County’s governorship, under a Jubilee ticket, in a move that will
pit her against the region’s incumbent governor Francis Kimemia. According to Kariuki, President Kenyatta’s critiques
and rivals will be in for a rude awakening once the Head of State hits the campaign trail in the region. The Head-of-State has recently hinted that he
might play a role in the succession politics of Mt. Kenya, in the next six
months, despite his imminent departure from office. “The party leader has expressed himself loudly that
you got to choose to politic from Monday through Sunday or do development and
only do politics when the window for politics opens. He is coming back to do
politics six months to the election,” Kariuki said in an interview with the
Standard. “He has been doing development for four and a half
years. I really think that it is an attempt by the opposing side to create that
impression. I would ask you to watch the space. The party is coming back and it
will be loud.” While reiterating that her decision to venture into politics was calculated and not made on a whim, the CS expressed optimism that she would win
the Jubilee ticket ahead of the party’s nomination primaries. “I am going there because I am going there. Remember
there were options. Yesterday, I had offers from six different parties, but I am
saying I have an idea where I want to be,” she said. In the event that she clinches Nyandarua’s
governorship at the polls, Kariuki says that she will borrow a leaf from Kitui
governor Charity Ngilu and her Makueni, Mombasa and Meru counterparts Kivutha
Kibwana, Hassan Joho and Kiraitu Murungi’s books, who she says have made
significant strides in matters service delivery in their respective regions. “I am privileged to have visited Kitui and known that we
can have a cottage industry. Governor Charity Ngilu has done it using the same
resources devolved to all the other counties. I can see what Makueni and
Mombasa have become in terms of healthcare and what Governor Kiraitu Murungi
has done in the provision of water. So I have an idea how it should be done,” she explained. She likewise stated that she intends to revive the
region’s agriculture sector by supporting the diversification and introduction
of crops such as pyrethrum and avocadoes.  “The people (of Nyandarua) are hardworking, what they
need is water, roads and links to credit and storage facilities,” said the
former CS.