  The Deputy President alleged of a plot by the State to impose
ODM leader Raila Odinga on the people for the presidency come August General
Elections. Speaking on Friday in Taita Taveta and Kilifi counties where the Kenya
Kwanza team held joint rallies, DP Ruto said even with "under-the-table" dealings, Kenyans would not accept a project. “How possible is it that those who were behind the Bill are
now running away from it?” He posed. “They want to change the election laws so that
their puppet leader can be imposed on the people,” he explained. The United Democratic Alliance party leader challenged those
behind what her termed as  the Raila Project to come out and campaign for him (Raila) rather than engaging
in shortcuts. In his Friday itinerary, DP Ruto was accompanied by party leaders; Musalia
Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya), MPs Lydiah Haika (Taita
Taveta), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Athman Shariff (Lamu
East), Mohamed Ali (Nyali), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga) and Benjamin Tayari
(Kinango). Others were John Waluke, Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi),
Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Kimani Ichung’wah (Kikuyu), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu),
Bungoma Deputy Governor Charles Ngome and former Governor John Mruttu. Mudavadi on his part reiterated there were evil schemes
behind the changes in the election laws and told off the pioneers as he urged the IEBC to bring forth the real owners of the Bill. “You cannot start to change the rules of the game at the
eleventh hour. We must know who the real owner of this mongrel of law is,” he
said. He added: “Ata project ya Azimio yenyewe kupitia Junet na
wengine wamekataa hio sharia; ata yule beneficiary wa kuibiwa amesema ata kama
ni kuniibia msiniibie namna hio.” Adding his voice to debate on the controversial bill, Wetang’ula said
that Kenya was beyond the politics of conmanship underscoring that the new laws would
be bad for the country and must be rejected. While emphasizing the need to reject the law, the Ford Kenya
leader said it would plunge the country into chaos. He said: “We want a transparent and accountable election in Kenya." Kiharu legislator Nyoro seconded the leaders’ remarks saying
the new development was a product of the frustrations facing the Raila project
has been undergoing from the vote-rich Mt Kenya. “Kenyans want their
choices respected,” Nyoro argued as he termed the law retrogressive, warning
that Kenya risks being taken back to the dark path.   “The Bill was tabled by the government because its origin
was from the Leader of Majority. We will kill it and ensure we win in round one,”
Kimani Ichung’wa said. At the same time, Mudavadi called on Kenyans to rally behind
the Kenya Kwanza Movement in August polls to ensure its victory is sealed by
garnering 51 per cent of votes.  “The pressure on ordinary Kenyans is so severe that we must
ensure that we win the August polls in round one. We do not want any delays
with a run-off,” said the ANC Party Leader. 