Hong Kong will roll out compulsory testing for COVID-19
starting in mid-March for its 7.4 million residents, leader Carrie Lam said on
Tuesday, as university researchers predicted new infections could peak at a
staggering 180,000 a day next month. Stringent coronavirus rules would be in place until
mid-April with schools breaking early for summer and resuming the new year in
August, she said, as authorities battle an "exponential" rise in
infections that have overwhelmed the healthcare system. Hong Kong is home to some of the most densely populated
districts on Earth, with the majority of people living in high-rise apartment
blocks cheek by jowl with family members and often sharing cramped lifts. "The coming one to three months are crucial in fighting
the pandemic," Lam told a press briefing. Residents would need to test three times under the
compulsory testing scheme with a daily testing capacity reaching one million.
Venues including school campuses could be used for testing and isolation, she
said. The measures are the most draconian to be implemented, two
years into the pandemic in the global financial hub. Lam reiterated the city's "dynamic zero COVID"
strategy similar to mainland China, aiming to eradicate any outbreaks at all
costs. She repeatedly thanked mainland authorities for their "staunch
support." She said authorities were not considering a city-wide
lockdown, like those in mainland China. The central government would however
help to build a temporary hospital. Health authorities in the former British colony reported
6,211 new cases, 32 deaths and a further 9,369 cases that came up positive in
preliminary tests. They said a backlog in testing meant they were unable to get
a full picture. In a paper titled "Modelling the fifth wave of COVID-19
in Hong Kong", researchers at the University of Hong Kong said they
updated their Feb. 10 study to show the number of daily deaths potentially
peaking at near 100 by late March, and cumulative deaths potentially rising to
around 3,206 by mid-May. Less than two weeks ago, the same researchers had predicted
daily infections potentially peaking at around 28,000 by mid-March with a total
of 954 deaths by the end of June. In the absence of much more intensive social distancing measures,
like a city-wide lockdown, "the trajectory of the fifth wave is unlikely
to change substantially from its current course", the study said. Hong Kong has reported that since the start of February
daily infections have surged by around 70 times, overwhelming the government's
testing, hospital and quarantine capacities, as it attempts to stifle the
virus. Hong Kong already has some of the world's toughest rules to
curb COVID-19. Stringent restrictions mean that very few flights are able to
land while most transit passengers are banned. Lam said a flight ban from nine countries including the
United States and Britain would remain in place until April 20 with other
countries potentially being added to the list. Gatherings of more than two people are banned and most
venues, including schools, gyms and beauty salons, are closed. July-August holidays for schools, which are conducting
lessons online, would be brought forward to March-April. Lam said she hoped
face-to-face classes could take place from April, with the new school year
beginning as normal in August. The restrictions, which were first imposed in 2020, are
testing the patience of residents, as fatigue and anxiety set in with
businesses across the city reeling from the closures. In total, the city has reported over 60,000 infections, far
less than other similar major cities. However, a large proportion of the
vulnerable elderly population remains unvaccinated. Lam said the city's vaccination rate should reach around 90%
for one dose by March, up from around 86% currently. "Stay confident and we will see the rainbow," Lam
said. The study anticipated that the number of infected people in
7-day isolation could potentially reach over 600,000, while the number of close
contacts in seven-day quarantine could reach 1.8 million, leading to substantial disruption in society.  