The Kenyan government has reassured development partners of
its preparedness to ensure a smooth transition of power as the August 9 elections draw closer. In a statement issued on Monday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said elaborate plans were in place to ensure instruments of power would be handed
over to the next government in a peaceful manner. CS Matiang’i further noted that security agencies would be deployed and mobilized to provide adequate support
to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). The CS spoke during a briefing meeting of the Cabinet
Committee on National Government development projects and development partners
held at the Serena Hotel in Nairobi on Monday, “Today, we have given assurance to our partners that, as a
country, we are ready to proceed and facilitate the IEBC to conduct the
elections. The agencies that have got the constitutional mandate to facilitate
the Commission during the elections are represented here,” he said. CS Matiang’i also underscored the recent national
multi-sectoral consultative forum that was chaired by Chief Justice Martha
Koome on elections preparedness saying it was critical in ensuring the credibility
of the polls. At the same time, he dismissed concerns that the forum was
usurping the role of the IEBC saying the electoral body was well aware of its role
to Kenyans. “Whether the country will have free and fair elections is
a question that only Chebukati and the IEBC can answer. We are clear that
is the mandate of the IEBC. Ours is to provide whatever support IEBC requires
to get it done,” the CS said. ICT CS Joe Mucheru who was also in the meeting rubbished recent
claims by politicians of the State interfering with the broadcasting of the
elections saying that the media space would be respected and the internet would
not be shut down. “We sadly note there is a lot of abuse of the media in the
country and especially on social media. But we will not shut it down despite
the provocation and temptation to do so,” CS Mucheru said. British High Commissioner, Jane Marriot however raised
concerns about whether key foreign investments would be negatively affected by
election-related activities. In his response, CS Matiang’i said the Government will hold
regular briefing sessions on election preparedness with stakeholders. “We have taken counsel from our partners and observations
from them in a number of issues. As a country, we are much better because of
the support we have received materially and in terms of policy advice,” the CS explained. He added: “We are grateful that they are forthcoming in
engaging with us on all the programmes that we have.” In the meeting, issues such as the security environment,
post-COVID-19 Economic Recovery Strategy and the budget implications for the
completion of priority projects were also tabled. French envoy to Kenya Aline Kuster-Menager, who is also the
lead in convening the diplomatic corps lauded regular briefing sessions saying
they reinforced development partners’ confidence in the country as an ideal
investment destination. “It is important for
us partners as a group to interact very closely during this election times.
It’ll help us better understand how the government is organising itself to
achieve its results and bring continuity to our processes,” she said. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani said the country’s economy was on
the rebound with projected average GDP growth of 7.5 per cent in the first
quarter of this year. CS Yatani spelled out that the stimulus packages implemented
by the state to cushion the economy during the pandemic were bearing fruits
with agriculture and the hospitality industries recording impressive growth.  Other leaders who graced the event included; Attorney
General Kihara Kariuki, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, Principal Secretaries Macharia
Kamau, Julius Muia, and Chris Kiptoo, Deputy IG Noor Gabow, representatives of
the UN agencies, the World Bank and other envoys to Kenya.