Kenya Power has announced plans to lay off 20 per cent of its
employees who are largely ageing as it seeks to replace them with a younger and
cheaper group. According to the power supplier’s acting chief executive
officer Rosemary Oduor, the phased voluntary employee separation (VES) exercise
will send home 1,962  employees and
replace them with 830 younger staff at a cheaper cost. “The company, because of low attrition rate, has an ageing
and expensive workforce resulting in staff cost growing at nearly twice the
rate of revenue growth,” Oduor was quoted by Nation as saying in an internal circular
dated January 24. The programme is set to be implemented in May through June
2023 and will see the current Kenya Power employee count of  9,843 fall to 
8,711. Additionally, the exercise will set Kenya Power back an
estimated Ksh5.3 billion. “In an environment where low operational costs and agility
are critical requirements, productivity and quality of service have been
negatively impacted,” Oduor further noted. “This calls for the company to put in place a human capital
focused on a business sustainability plan that will enhance effective customer
engagement, manage staff costs and infuse agility while at the same time
managing knowledge transfer.” The latest comes just weeks after the utility company
announced its search for a new Managing Director following the abrupt
resignation of Bernard Ngugi in August last year after barely two years at the
helm. Ngugi was replaced on an interim basis by Oduor, who was the
General Manager for Commercial Services and Sales. The unprecedented exit of Ngugi was preceded by pressure to
turn the firm’s fortunes. The new MD, Kenya Power said, will spearhead ongoing reforms
at the company to improve both its business performance and service delivery to
customers. In January, the company trimmed its commercial and technical
losses, opening the door for the much-publicized 15 per cent cut to electricity
tariffs.  The company is further expected to take centre stage in the
quest for cheaper electricity for Kenyans with the Ministry of Energy now set
to midwife talks between the utility and independent power producers (IPPs) on
the review of power purchase agreements (PPAs).