Developing
countries must quickly strengthen their financial sectors, the World Bank said
on Tuesday, warning that rising inflation, interest rates and alarming levels
of debt distress could trigger a global chain reaction not seen in generations. The
World Bank underscored its longstanding concerns about lack of transparency
about Chinese lending and collateralized loans in the sovereign debt sector,
but also called out growing private sector risks in its latest World
Development Report. The
bank's surveys showed 46% of small and medium-sized businesses in developing
countries expected to fall behind on debt payments within six months, but the
number was twice as high in some countries, chief economist Carmen Reinhart
told Reuters in an interview ahead of the report's release. Reinhart
said she was keeping a close eye on private sector debt developments in bigger
emerging markets like India, South Africa, the Philippines, and Kenya, where
more than 65% of small and medium-sized companies expected to be in arrears. She
told an online World Bank event that the share of countries in or at risk of
debt distress was in "alarming territory," but financial sector
policies were also needed to address risks posed by rising debt among
households and firms. Turkey,
whose credit rating was downgraded to "BB-" by ratings agency Fitch
last week, had been in crisis for several years and could "well be the
straw that broke the camel's back," she told Reuters. Massive
fiscal and monetary support had helped mitigate the consequences of the
economic crisis triggered by the pandemic, but forbearance policies and relaxed
accounting standards could be obscuring a "hidden non-performing loan
problem," she said. "There's
a huge need for better transparency on the private sector debt," Reinhart
said. "What
gets you in the end is not so much what you see, but what you don't see,"
she said, warning against a false sense of complacency about financial health
of households and firms. Bank
for International Settlements head Agustin Carstens told the World Bank event
that many of the macroeconomic policies adopted by governments during the
pandemic had hit their limits and new policies were now needed to enhance the
resilience of private firms and support employment. The
report urged greater efforts to improve transparency about private sector debt,
more proactive management of distressed loans, including out-of-court
solutions, as well as accelerated work on addressing sovereign debt distress. Many
ratings agencies also failed to factor in foreign state-owned enterprises that
could raise significant financial risks in low-income and some emerging market
countries, it said. World
Bank President David Malpass highlighted risks of spillover effects given the
interrelated nature of households, firms, financial sector institutions and
governments. "Private debt could suddenly become public debt, as in many
past crises," he wrote in the forward to the report. Speaking
on Tuesday, Malpass said gradual interest rate hikes by central banks and a
tapering of bond purchases alone were unlikely to control inflation that is
hitting the world's poorest the hardest. Instead,
he said, governments and central banks - in developing countries and advanced
economies - should "use more of their tools at the same time,"
including steps to lengthen the maturity and transparency of all levels of
outstanding government debt, and slow the growth in national debt levels. STALLED
PROGRESS ON SOVEREIGN DEBT RESTRUCTURING Malpass
said implementation of the Common Framework agreed by China, the world's
largest creditor, and other Group of 20 major economies to deal with debt
problems was stalled. The
pandemic-induced recession of 2020 led to the largest single-year surge in
global debt in decades, and 51 countries had their sovereign debt credit rating
cut, but the issue had not triggered the urgent action needed, Reinhart said. Malpass
warned that the longer such debt restructuring efforts took, the bigger the
"haircut" creditors faced. "For
debtor countries, delay presents major setbacks to growth, poverty alleviation
and development," he wrote, adding that negotiations about moving forward
were now "stalled." The
International Monetary Fund last week said it would press G20 finance leaders
meeting this week to strengthen the framework for poor countries given rising
default risks.