NARC Kenya party leader Martha Karua now says
that the ongoing feud between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President
William Ruto, which has in recent days played out publicly, is disrupting the
duo’s capacity to carry out their respective duties to the people of Kenya. While ceding that disagreements occur in all coalitions,
Karua underscored that President Kenyatta and DP Ruto need to find an amicable
way to resolve their conflict. Failure to which, she said, they should
resign from their respective posts in order to save face and safeguard Kenya’s
future. “By bringing their wars to the public arena
they both disrespect us as voters and as leaders. They must look for a way to
have minimum conditions for working together and if they find it unattainable
then the government should resign and we get new leadership,” Karua said on Citizen
TV’s NewsNight show on Tuesday. “So long as they continue to carry the flag
of the presidency, they must in their public conduct and utterances honour the
offices they hold and respect Kenyans. It is total disrespect to have that sort
of exchange.” Karua similarly chimed in on her February 2
decision to ink a coalition agreement with One Kenya Alliance (OKA),
following the exit of Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party and Moses Wetangula’s
Ford Kenya party. Her move sparked debate that she might soon
be revealed as Odinga’s running mate owing to the fact that she has remained
coy on whether she will pursue Kirinyaga governor’s seat or a national seat at
the August General Elections. The Kenyan iron lady however told show host
Waihiga Mwaura that she is qualified enough to serve the people of Kenya at
both the county and national levels. “I will continue playing both a local and
national role and right from the time I was elected MP I have always played
both a local and national role,” she explained. While underscoring that DP Ruto never courted
her for a partnership, she cited that Mudavadi and Wetangula were entitled to
join DP Ruto and that people should come to terms with it. “It was a loss for both OKA and them. They
are however entitled to make their choices and we must respect that,” she added. Karua similarly alluded that the new OKA
alliance was open to forming coalitions with other individuals whose interests
align with their own. “I am a leader of a national party. I must
lead my party to look for like-minded individuals so that we too can be at the
table…as an individual I have my interests so it is possible to play a dual
role,” she stated.  The NARC Kenya party boss consequently
dismissed the notion that the sprint to State House is a two horse race between
DP Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga, citing that Kenya has a rich list of other
presidential candidates who can succeed President Kenyatta.