Former Mt. Elgon Member of Parliament John Serut passed away
on Wednesday after a long battle with cancer. According to his family, Serut died at the Nairobi Hospital
at the age of 67. The former MP has been in and out of hospital in recent
months battling a rare form of cancer known as multiple myeloma which affects
the plasma cells in the bone marrow. Serut’s family announced his medical status in October last
year while appealing to Kenyans for financial support towards his medical bills
which had reportedly accumulated to a staggering Ksh.20 million. “He’s been unwell for a while now. He was diagnosed with
multiple myeloma in January of 2020. Since then, we’ve had medical bills
totaling to about Ksh.20 million,” Serut’s daughter Michelle said in a series
of tweets then. “Our most recent bill was slightly over five million and we
need the amount on top to cater for an insurance cover as we have exhausted the
existing one due to bills amounting to 14 million this year alone,” she added. In an interview the same month, Michelle said the sickness
had ravaged the family’s financial stability, making them resort to well
wishers’ input. “I grew up knowing my parents were rich. I never imagined
we’d one day be in a situation where we would seek financial aid,” she told The
Standard. Additionally, it emerged that the former legislator had
fallen down and fractured his hip and had to undergo a hip replacement surgery
in January last year. Serut first served as a Member of Parliament for Mt Elgon
under former President Mwai Kibaki’s administration between 2002 to 2007. Between 2006 and 2007, the parliamentarian served as
Assistant Minister for National Development. In the 2007 General Election, he sought to defend his seat but was
defeated by Fred Kapondi. Serut plunged in the parliamentary race again in the 2013
polls and won, serving as the Mt Elgon MP until 2017. In the 20017 elections, however, he lost again to Fred
Kapondi and was still expected to return to the political arena in the upcoming
August General Election. Serut is survived by a wife, five children and three
granddaughters. Michelle wrote on Twitter shortly after his demise: “Rest in
peace to the love of my life. I hate that you won't see my children. I hate
that you won't get to see the woman I become but I'll make you proud. I love
you dad.” Deputy President William Ruto has hailed Serut as a bold
politician and champion for justice who has left a rich legacy. “Mheshimiwa John Serut was a firm, bold and vocal politician
who served the people of Mt Elgon with distinction,” tweeted the DP.  “He was a gifted debater, persistent and a fighter for equal
justice. We honour the rich legacy that he leaves behind,” he added.