Kitui
Central MP Makali Mulu and his Kikuyu counterpart Kimani Ichung’wah now say that
Kenya’s burgeoning debt should not be blamed solely on Parliament’s Budget and
Appropriation Committee. According
to the legislators, who have both been members of the committee, the decision-making of the committee has greatly been
influenced by orders from the Executive in the past nine years. “The
blame for Kenya’s steep debt should not be attributed fully to the Budget and
Appropriations Committee since the initiator of all budgets in the country has
been the Executive,” Mulu said. “Anytime
you plan a budget you need to ask yourself whose budget it is. The ruling party
is Jubilee. They have a manifesto to implement. They came up with programs to fulfil
their manifesto and in the process, they pushed for a lot of projects.” Ichungwa added that part of the reason he
directly opposed orders from the Executive during his stint in the National
Assembly’s Budget and Appropriations Committee was that he felt that the
country couldn’t balance its debt with its expenditure, which created fiscal
debt that Kenya had to finance with borrowing. He went on to state that the Committee was caught between a rock and a hard place
owing to the fact that the Jubilee administration came up with huge development
projects such as the Standard Gauge Railway, which they intended to finance
with loans, raising the question of whether to implement the initiatives and
finance them with borrowing or abandon them entirely. Despite
the difficult decision, Ichung’wa says, the ruling party’s agenda was often
pushed in parliament by its members further highlighting the Executive’s influence on
parliamentary proceedings. “Indeed
parliament has been under state capture,” Ichung’wa said. Ichung’wa however clarified that debt plays an integral
part in economic progress, hence it must be measured appropriately to convey the
long-term impact opportunities it presents. “There
is absolutely nothing wrong with borrowing. It is how do you borrow? Where are
you borrowing from in terms of that is it commercial, domestic or external? At
what interest rate and how are you utilisng the debt you are borrowing,” Ichung’wa
said. His
sentiments were mirrored by the Kitui Central legislator who cited that when
debt is used appropriately, it can be used to foster the long-term growth and
prosperity of Kenya.  “Borrowing is not bad, what matters is how you
spend that money and manage the repayment of the loan, and most of the time
there are international standards about how you measure the debt. There are
those ratios that you consider which are used across the board to measure
public debt,” he said.