 Central Kenya leaders allied to the Jubilee party have welcomed the President’s plan to support the Azimio la Umoja movement. The meeting is expected to bring together 30,000 people from across all sectors from Mount Kenya region, including governors, Members of Parliament, Members of the County Assemblies (MCAs), top business people among others. Ahead of the forum, Jubilee leaders in Central Kenya have rallied their supporters behind the president’s agenda which includes his succession plan that is likely to dominate the meeting. "Hii mkutano ya Sagana 3 ni baadhi ya mikutano ambayo rais amekuwa akifanya na watu kutoka maeneo tofauti na ni katika kuangalia specific issues za region na pia kuwaelezea kazi amewafanyia as a region…,” said Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya “I believe that the President will be able to explain to us why he has decided on him and not any other party… That meeting will be a defining moment, it will be the turning point where the few who have been misled will know the truth …,” added Kieni MP Kanini Kega. Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati added: “Hii wakati msiposkiza rais vile mheshimiwa Uhuru anasema mtakuwa kwa shida kwa maana haiwezi kuwa mtu mmoja anafanya kazi ule mwengine hafanyi kazi, kazi yake ni kuiba wabunge wa Jubilee kuwapeleka Karen kupiga picha anaonyesha Uhuru mimi niko na wabunge 100.” The leaders who held daylong meetings with Jubilee party members in Nairobi, Kirinyaga and Nyandarua counties said the meeting was long overdue. It is expected to offer direction to the region which remains a battleground as the Kenya Kwanza Alliance boasts of a sizeable number of leaders from the region. “Tutamwambia mheshimiwa rais tukienda Sagana siku ya jumatano ya kwamba watu wa Kirinyaga na Mwea wamekubaliana yeye aendelee kuwa kiongozi wa chama …, said Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira. On his part, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth said : “Tunaenda kuunga mkono rais Uhuru Kenyatta na kumpatia nguvu ya kutengeneza ile coalition anaona itatusaidia, tukimpatia nguvu Ijumaa, Jumamosi aseme tuingie ndani ya ODM na Azimio tunaenda huko sisi wote.” The leaders told off the Kenya Kwanza team led by Deputy President William Ruto over their remarks on President Kenyatta’s endorsement of ODM Leader Raila Odinga as his preferred successor and said they cannot be trusted with the country’s leadership. Several defections are expected during the Wednesday meeting which will take place two days before the Jubilee National Delegates Conference to be held on Friday. It is during the National Delegates Conference that the party is expected to pass a raft of changes that will guide members ahead of the August 9th polls. 