Leaders
allied to President uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have called out
Deputy President William Ruto for what they term as consistently disrespecting
the president and for failing in his role as the president’s principal
assistant. The
leaders who campaigned for the Azimio la Umoja movement in Busia County said
Ruto is unsuitable to lead the country saying the DP has displayed wrong
qualities. In the
absence of ODM leader Raila Odinga – Azimio leaders  led by Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho and Defence
CS Eugene Wamalwa led teams in campaigns in parts of the Western Kenya region. The Azimio
campaigns kicked off in Teso North Constituency before moving to a rally at the
Busia stadium in the border town. The
leaders trained their guns on Deputy President William Ruto accusing him of
failing in his office by abandoning the president and resorting to succession
politics. “Kuna
wale walichjaguliwa..Lakini badala ya kufanya kazi wakaanza kutangatanga badala
ya kufanyia wakenya kazi…,” said Sabina Chege. Suna
East MP Junet Mohamed said: “Tuko na deputy president amepewa kazi amekataa
kufamya sasa kazi yake ni kuzurura tu…” Mombasa
Governor Hassan Joho said: “Ruto si size ya baba… Ruto kabla umfikie baba
utatufikia kwanza sisi…” Ruto
came under fire for his opposition to various government projects includiing
the new Competency Based Curriculum that Kenya kwanza says it will scrap if it
wins the election. “Yeye
amekuwa kwa cabinet CBC ikipitishwa mbona sahi ndiio anasema ati anataka
itolewe… The Azimio
leaders now say President Uhuru Kenyatta’s deputy other than criticising
government projects, has resorted to unrealistic promises in his campaigns that
they are now warning kenyans not to heed the call. “Baba
yeye akisema atatimiza kitu atatimiza… Si alileta Devolution lakini Ruto
tutamuimbia ile wimbo inasema promise after promise…,” said Joho.  The Azimio
western campaigns which came to a close on Saturday sought to safeguard the Western
vote in Azimio favor and reverse the gains made by DP Ruto in his Western
campaigns.