Garissa Township MP Aden Duale now says that
Deputy President William Ruto should not be mentioned in discussions about the
state of Kenya’s national debt. The DP, according to Mr. Duale, was not a
party in securing the loans because he was sidelined by the ruling Jubilee
administration ever since the March 2018 handshake between President Kenyatta
and then-opposition leader Raila Odinga happened. “Kazi yake ilipewa ndugu yangu Fred
Matiang’i. National Security Council ambayo kikatiba makamu wa rais anakaa,
haijakaa karibu mwaka mmoja na nusu, baraza la mawaziri halijakaa,” said Duale
during Citizen TV’s Vigogo show on Tuesday. “William Ruto ametengwa, kama angepewa nafasi
pengine leo tungemuuliza kwa nini hakuongea juu ya madeni. Sisi tuliokuwa
katika uongozi tulitolewa baada ya handshake,” he added. The legislator further argued that the
opposition is to blame for what he termed as a dire economic situation in the
country for ‘going into bed’ with the State instead of sticking to their
constitutional mandate. “Wale ambao wangekuwa wana oversee matumizi
ya serikali ni watu wa upinzani. Kikatiba, wale mbao wangeongea mambo ya deni
ni viongozi wa mlengo wa ODM na wale walikuwa wanaitwa NASA,” said Duale. “Wamekosea katika nafasi ya kukosoa serikali
na sasa wanatetea serikali,” he added, saying that had the DP not been
‘alienated’, he would have given useful input in economic matters. “Katiba inasema makamu wa rais ndiye mshauri
wa kwanza na mkubwa wa rais, alitengwa.” His comments come just a week after DP Ruto
lashed out at critics who have been accusing him of neglecting his job to
traverse the country politicking. The DP said that no one should dare to teach
him how to carry out his duties to Kenyans, warning those in the opposition to
hold their peace for they lack the 'moral authority' to do so. "Nimeskia watu wanajaribu kuilecture
kuhusu mambo ya naibu wa rais wa Kenya nataka niwaambie nyinyi watu mliokuwa
upande wa upinzani. Hamna ruhusa yoyote, hamna moral authority yoyote kunipatia
lecture kuhusu naibu wa rais wa Kenya,” said Ruto at a rally in Baringo on
February 13. “Hii mpango ya serikali ya Jubilee ni
muungano kati ya Rais Uhuru Kenyatta na mimi," he added.