Journalists seeking any elective position in
the August general elections are required to tender their resignations, the
Media Council of Kenya (MCK) has said. MCK, in a statement released on Thursday, advised
active journalists intending to transition into politics to step down as part
of adhering to the code of conduct governing the council. The council explained that it was the duty of
any practicing journalist bound by the Media Council Act to vacate office to
avoid acting contrary to the provisions of the law. "Pursuant to section 6 (k) of the Media
Council Act, 2013 the Council advises that any person subject to the Media
Council Act who becomes a political candidate or intends to be employed or
campaign for a particular political party must step aside from journalistic practice,”
said MCK CEO David Omwoyo. Omwoyo noted that the provision was necessary
to curb misuse of offices and resources by media personnel to popularize
themselves politically and gain an edge over their competitors. "Following our continued media
monitoring, it has been established that some journalists, media practitioners
and media enterprises are contravening this provision. The MCK has noted with
concern possible violation of the Act and hereby advises them to refrain from
violating the provisions of the law," he explained. "MCK hereby cautions journalists, media
practitioners and media enterprises against using their offices and official
media platforms for political gain. This will ensure adherence to the Act
and avoidance of any real, imagined, or perceived conflict of interest." The MCK boss thus cautioned any journlaist
caught in contravention of the constitution that they would be held to account. “The Council will take appropriate
enforcement action against any journalists, media practitioners and media
enterprises who are found to be in breach of the Act,” stated Omwoyo. Earlier, during an interview with a radio
station, Omwoyo called on political aspirants to avoid using their offices and
resources to bash their political rivals saying it was unethical. “It isn’t fair when you are planning to vie
to sit behind a microphone and abuse your opponent,” he said in an interview
with Spice FM. He compared the scenario to the Kenyan Parliament
where he said lawmakers were barred from discussing matters before the House in
other forums. “A journalist cannot for instance go to Parliament
to table or debate a bill and come back to write about it,” he stated. This comes just as the Independent Electoral
Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has also laid out guidelines on public servants
eyeing political seats to resign six months ahead of the General Election.  In regard to the law already passed, the
resignation deadline for public officers is slated for February 9, 2022.