A Nairobi-based man was charged by the
Milimani Law Courts for allegedly forging a Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) VIP
ticket. The suspect, David Ogola Origa, who pleaded
not guilty was arrested after County Revenue officers on routine rounds in the
Nairobi CBD came across a vehicle with the said ticket on its windscreen. Upon verifying the ticket's authenticity on
the Nairobi Revenue System (NRS), the officers discovered that it was not in
the database. When questioned by the officers, the owner of
the vehicle identified Origa as the person who sold him the ticket, leading to
his arrest. Origa is currently in police custody awaiting
trial. The taxman consequently warned Kenyans that
all VIP tickets are managed on the NRS system. “A list of all vehicles that qualify for the
sticker has been uploaded in the system. Members of the public are therefore
advised to verify that the stickers displayed on their vehicles are valid to
avoid clamping and impounding of their vehicles,” KRA said in a statement. In an unrelated incident, Samuel Mwangi was
charged before Bungoma Law Courts for allegedly conveying uncustomed goods,
being in possession of uncustomed goods and concealing imported goods. This was after KRA Customs officers at the
Lwakhakha Border Point intercepted a motor vehicle ferrying 30 drums of
uncustomed ethanol concealed with 102 bags of oranges and 13 bags of rice
husks. He pleaded not guilty and was granted a bond
of Ksh. 800,000 and an alternative surety of a similar amount. In Naivasha, two senior officials of Mashwa
Breweries Limited were on Tuesday likewise charged for being in possession of
excisable goods not affixed with excise stamps, excisable goods affixed with
counterfeit excise stamps, counterfeit excise stamps and restricted goods. "The two were found with over two
thousand bottles of Santana ice vodka which had not been affixed with excise
stamps while sixty bottles were affixed with counterfeit excise stamps,” KRA
said. "Thirty-five thousand counterfeit excise
stamps and fourteen drums of ethanol were also recovered from the
premises. "  Their cases will be mentioned on March 9,
2022, after the duo denied the charges.