Politicians seeking to contest for elective
positions at the August General Elections under respective party tickets have
been advised to make known their affiliations to the Office of the Registrar of
Political Parties on or before March 26, 2022. According to Registrar of Political Parties
Anne Nderitu, the political hopefuls will be barred from participating in the
polls, which are exactly 180 days from now, lest they contest as independent
candidates. “The Amendment Act says 14 days before the
registrar is submitted to IEBC it should be submitted to the Registrar of
Political Parties for certification and then the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission (IEBC)…this translates to March 26, 2022,” Nderitu said
on the JKLive show. She however clarified that elected leaders,
currently in office, will not be able to resign from their positions using the
available e-citizen platform. According to Nderitu, the resignations should
first be made in writing to their respective parties and the National Assembly
(for MPs) or county assemblies (for MCAs). After confirming receipt from the
aforementioned blocs, Nderitu’s office will then green-light their
resignations. The registrar continued on to say that her
office is aware of a few incidences where members of the public and politicians
alike have complained of being registered or deregistered from political
outfits without giving their consent. She sought to reassure Kenyans that her office
had put in place measures to deter such similar future incidences. “We have made it very easy for parties to
register to any political parties they want via the e-citizen platform. So you
can resign and join a political party of choice. Our system does not allow any
person to remove you except with your consent. Soon we are also planning to
unveil USSD codes which should be ready by next week,” she said. Nderitu also clarified that politicians who
have decamped from certain political outfits without tendering their official
resignation papers are legally recognized as being part of their original
parties. She correspondingly chimed in on the Political
Parties (Amendment) Bill, dismissing claims that little public participation
was done before the recently passed law was tabled before Parliament. Nderitu, likewise, emphasized that the role
of the Auditor General would in no way be affected by the bill, contrary to
what is being purported by its critics.  “The role of the AG is governed in other laws
and the law is very clear on what he is expected to do. It does not remove this
role,” she said. 