Deputy President William Ruto has announced the incorporation of
Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya as one of the principals in the Kenya Kwanza alliance. The deputy president commended Governor Mvurya’s commitment and
work for Kwale residents saying his track record in the county affairs had
bought him a place at the decision-making table. Speaking in Kinarini, Kwale County, during the Kenya Kwanza rally
on Saturday, the DP said Mvurya would join Amani National Congress (ANC) party
leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford-Kenya’s Moses Wetangula and Mathira Member of
Parliament Rigathi Gachagua at the main table of the Kenya Kwanza coalition. “Kazi ile ndugu yetu Salim Mvurya amefanya katika sehemu ya Kwale,
inaonekana Kenya mzima. Ako na record ya utendakazi ambayo sehemu zingine za
Kenya wanatamani na wanataka kusoma kutoka kwenu watu wa Kwale,” he said. “This gentlemen Salim Mvurya has earned a place at the national
table because of the performance he has demonstrated in the Kwale County.” DP Ruto went forth to seek the approval of the residents so that
they would willingly approve the decision to have their county boss join
national politics. “Kwa sababu ya rekodi ameweka, si jamani mtatupatia kama Kenya
Kwanza Mvurya? Si mtatupatia aketi na Wetangula, Musalia, Gachagua, na mimi na
wengine ndio tupange serikali pamoja tupange kazi na yeye kuendelea mbele?”
Ruto posed as the crowd approved. The DP continued to drum up support for his bottom-up economic
model as he urged the people to unite together to elect leaders who had their
interests at heart. "Waswahili wanasema umoja ni nguvu; ndio maana tumesimama
pamoja zaidi ya wabunge mia moja na themanini. 180 MPs have united to say they
want to build a united country,” he said. The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party boss slammed his
political rivals at the same time, accusing the State of plotting to impose a
leader on Kenyans by pushing the proposed
Elections Amendment Bill 2022. Kenya Kwanza allies accompanying him also took a swipe at the Bill
saying it is meant to curtail freedom of information They claimed that the Bill sought to endorse a project
to the Kenyan people come August. “People of Kenya cannot
elect a project; they will elect leaders who have a track record. It does not
matter where the project is coming from,” Ruto said. Similarly the second-in-command affirmed of soon-to-be victory for
Kenya Kwanza saying the coalition would forge a leader who would deliver people
from oppressive governance.  “Wacheni wivu, hii kiburi yenu na madharau tutaizima mwaka huu,”
he told his opponents.