Ever since Amani National Congress (ANC) party
leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford-Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula ditched
the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) for Deputy President William Ruto’s camp, opinion
has been divided over who among the coalition co-principals initiated the alleged
double-cross first. According to Homa Bay Woman Representative
Gladys Wanga, Mudavadi and Wetangula were poised to abandon fellow OKA
co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Gideon Moi from the get-go despite making
numerous reassurances that they would go all the way to the ballot. “I think they (OKA) have to move forward
after the grand betrayal by Musalia and Wetangula. During NASA we were always
told that ODM is betraying NASA and Musalia was always loud but now we have
found the real betrayer,” Wanga said. She slammed Mudavadi and Wetangula for not
having the courtesy to inform Musyoka and Moi that they would be joining DP
Ruto, instead inviting them to ANC’s national delegate conference where the
Wiper and KANU leaders hurriedly left after getting word of DP Ruto’s imminent
arrival. This, Wanga says, was also a clear indicator
of a planned betrayal by Mudavadi and Wetangula. The Azimio la Umoja-allied politician was
speaking as part of a panel interview on the JKLive show alongside Kandara
Member of Parliament Alice Wahome, who is affiliated to DP Ruto’s UDA party. Wahome was however quick to shoot down
Wanga’s sentiments citing that Mudavadi and Wetangula had highlighted a lack of
trust as one of the reasons that informed their decision. She similarly added that the move was also
informed by the fact that Mudavadi and Wetangula were tired of being left out on
matters governance. “I am surprised that Gladys is talking about
betrayal because ANC and Ford Kenya are talking about trust deficit by their
former partners who were NASA partners,” said Wahome. “They are not in a better position since
Jubilee has done nothing but betray all those who supported the president.” Wanga however defended President Uhuru Kenyatta citing
that he did not spur division within the Jubilee party when he decided to
partner with Odinga in the now famous handshake. According to Wanga, the Head-of-State had
the country’s best interests at heart when he partnered with the former
premier. “He took a bold step that saved this country
and now Alice’s team thought that this isn’t right. They went and formed
another outfit and now you see all of them shamelessly moving around in UDA
branded merchandise yet they belong to Jubilee,” she said. “None of them had the courage to officially
resign from Jubilee including the DP so when you are talking about betrayal I
think it is the DP who has heavily betrayed the president.” She similarly chided Mudavadi for joining
forces with DP Ruto despite the fact that he has been a vocal
critic of the UDA frontman in the past. Wahome however countered Wanga citing that
the alleged benefits of the Azimio la Umoja had only been reserved for persons
supporting the handshake and not the larger Kenyan population.  “You don’t need a coalition agreement to keep
your word…They are now talking of Jubilee and ODM as the main partners of
Azimio so what betrayal are you looking for when you went to hunt for votes to
form a government and your DP is no longer a key player in the government?” she
posed.