 Speaking on Saturday in Kakamega County where they toured to popularize DP Ruto’s presidential bid, the legislators faulted the Head of State for what they termed as taking politics into the State House. Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said Kenyatta, in backing Odinga publicly, had disgraced himself and State House, arguing that no sitting president has ever done that. “Tunataka kuambia Rais, umejitia aibu na umetia State House aibu, presidents wote hata President Moi alikucampaignia lakini hakufanya uchafu kama huo. Please respect the institution of the State House,” said Murkomen. The President, Murkomen said, should keep politics out of the State House and let the ODM leader fight for his bid in the grassroots against his competitors. “Ukitaka kufanya mkutano yako na mahecklers mkutane pale Kamkunji Nairobi ama Embakasi uimbe nyimbo kama hizo,” he said. He added: “Niliona anaimba nyimbo za ‘Yote yawezekana..’ si hiyo ni desperation? You are looking so desperate and stressed, relax na utuachie huyu mzee tunyoroshane na yeye!” Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, on his part, said that Friday’s endorsement proved that Azimio La Umoja had all along been a State project despite the camp’s denial. “Mwenye project ya Azimio amejitokeza sasa. President Uhuru Kenyatta is the proprietor  of the Azimio La Umoja project,” Malala said. “Tunataka kumwambia Rais; toa campaigns State House na ukuje hapa Navakholo tuonane na wewe face-to-face.” He further argued that the DP Ruto-led United Democratic Alliance was unfazed by Uhuru’s endorsement of his preferred successor, saying that the decision of whoever clinches presidency lies ultimately on the voters. “Tunataka kusisitiza hapa yakwamba rais wa Jamhuri ya Kenya atachaguliwa na Mkenya mwenye ako hapa mashinani na Kura yake… na tuna-assure kuwa kura zenu zitakuwa safe kwa sababu tunajua Mungu ako na sisi,” added Malala. During his open endorsement of Odinga’s presidential bid on Friday at State House Nairobi, President Kenyatta hailed his March 2018 handshake with the former opposition leader, saying he had been able to achieve more development projects and stability in the nation than he did in the first term. “As they speak about Jubilee Party’s death, you can also see what the party has been doing. We have been able to achieve much but there are some projects which are not complete, and hence as Jubilee (Party) we are now coming out of the office getting into real politics. “And because some were politicking while work was ongoing, we have said we want a coalition unit of like-minded parties and together we join Azimio. We have the candidate, we have the resources and the youth are together with us," the Head of State said.