Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiang'i and Peter Munya have fired back at politicians
criticizing President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government accusing them of double
standards in their criticisms Interior CS Matiang'i and his Agriculture counterpart
Peter Munya slammed the politicians for riding on the Jubilee government’s
achievements while still denouncing the same administration. Speaking during the unveiling of the new Chiakariga
Sub-County administration unit in Chiakariga in Tharaka Nithi County on
Thursday, Matiang'i cited the already set up projects and told off those
smearing the President’s track record. “It’s very dishonest for leaders to take credit for all the
many projects President Kenyatta has initiated and at the same time accuse the
same government of doing nothing. It cannot be a case of both,” CS Matiangi
said. He added: “There is a trend we are witnessing now where some
people are criticizing the government saying it has done nothing. It is simply
baffling! We can as well say we are now issuing licenses for telling lies. Just
look around and count the number of completed and ongoing projects.” CS Munya on his part underscored the need to accord the head
of state his due respect and allow for incremental development saying it was
impossible to meet every community’s wish list. “We cannot say that we are where we should be, but let’s
learn to give credit where it’s due,” Munya said. “We all know that those spreading the campaign that the
government has done nothing are bitter and selfish people who have overrun
themselves and their shortcuts to power have hit a dead end.” At the same time, the Matiang'i announced the gazetting of
another Sub-County, Muthambi, in the same county and reassured of the government's
commitment to completing pending projects in the counties such as the Competence-Based
Curriculum (CBC) infrastructures. In accordance with the same program, a Ksh 5 million cheque
was awarded to Tunyai Mixed Day Secondary School for the construction of a
modern laboratory. He also implored residents to take advantage of the new
administration units to access government services.  “What these units mean is that residents can now obtain IDs,
birth and death certificates and other important documents easily. When we’re
recruiting for police and other agencies, we will now have a recruitment code
for Chiakariga for our local sons and daughters,” he said.