Its tough times ahead for those seeking
political positions as they will be required to meet stringent integrity
requirements so as to be cleared. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC)
is petitioning the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC) to give them more
teeth so that they can enforce the new rules which will enable the commission
to bar those with integrity questions from contesting. With aspirants seeking various elective seats
expected to seek clearance with various government agencies ahead of the nominations
and subsequent elections in august, EACC asked the committee to allocate it
additional fund to enable it widen its net and closely monitor leaders at both
levels of government against misuse of resources especially the transition
period. EACC CEO Twalib
Mbarak said: “We are having bureaucrats at county level and national level who
dont know their future, whether they will be defeated or win, if they are CECs,
people may tend to do graft as they are winding up, this is were IEBC need to
be vigilant in undercover operations, investigation ignorer to avert loss of
public money.” EACC called for the amendment of the law to
give the commission more powers to bar those with questionable integrity from
contesting. “What could happen
therefore if you don’t get money? Would that mean those seeking clearance will
not get or what?” Posed Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono. “We will end up
diluting the type of report we will give IEBC or the public, of course there is
no watertight vetting but you must have a threshold that is acceptable…you don't
vet somebody you say this person is good then after a while the public is
making noise, we must tell IEBC that these are the red flags,” said Mbarak. The commission CEO confident that a review of
the law would return honour to public offices now occupied by some individuals
with questionable character. “You have two
privates on your side, one purporting to be a major one a captain for all those
years and we know very well that they are not commissioned and they are members
of these big committees and they grill me as a major…we need to tell IEBC that
these are the red flags for these people, this man as much as he has a degree
this is a fake degree, unfortunately when you say that he goes to court.” IEBC CEO Hussein Marjan, who also appeared
before the committee, decried the Ksh.4.5 billion shortfall in monies allocated
to the commission, saying the process of verifying signatures and the legal
department would be disenfranchised. According to Marjan, Ksh.1.3 billion was
needed to effectively oversee the verification of signatures ahead of the August
polls. “If you do not
allocate us, we’ll verify like we did for voter verification, three kits per
ward but if we get the money we will deploy more resources and reach more
people.”  While pledging to push the National Treasury
to ensure the commission was fully funded, the committee expressed concerns
over the huge pending bill owed to lawyers by the commission, most of whom are
external.