The Copyright (Amendment) Bill, 2021, on
Thursday successfully sailed through its second reading before the National
Assembly after unanimously being passed by legislators, setting the stage for
its final reading next week. The bill, sponsored by Homa Bay Woman
Representative Gladys Wanga, seeks to have artistes and creatives allotted 52
per cent of all revenue generated from ring back tunes popularly known as Skiza
tunes. As it stands, only 16 per cent of the
proceeds go to artistes, while 25 per cent and 51 per cent go to the taxman and
Safaricom respectively. It also proposes that Internet Service
Providers (ISPs) be barred from removing content deemed to have infringed on
copyright regulations. Current statutes stipulate that ISPs can take
down such content, in 48 hours, unless they obtain a notice opposing the
takedown. The bill also proposes that ISPs be
prohibited from unveiling personal information on subscribers thought to be
engaging in content infringement. It consequently wants to establish an online
national portal for registration of copyright works. Once they register their
works on the platform, artistes will receive proceeds from any persons who
sample their works. Speaking during the House proceedings, Wanga
underscored that if enacted into law the bill, first published on October 6,
2021 and first read in Parliament on November 4, will revolutionise Kenya’s
creative industry and create a level playing field for artistes in that they
are guaranteed to earn more from their creative endeavours. “The paradox is whether our artistes get to
earn what they deserve and this is what the Copyright Amendment Bill seeks to
deal with. We need to put our artists where they belong This is going to be
revolutionary for the creative industry and our artistes. Amendments like these
will change the lives of our artists,” Wanga said. She similarly thanked President Uhuru
Kenyatta and former premier Raila Odinga, who have in recent months gone out of
their way to ensure that the welfare of Kenyan artistes is given priority. Majority Leader Amos Kimunya seconded Wanga,
citing that the bill is an important piece of legislature that will empower the
country’s creative sector by creating a conducive operating environment for
Kenyan artistes. “We have very talented young Kenyans who have
been innovative in terms of creativity but they have had the frustration of all
their monies being taken by people who then intervene on their behalf,” he
said. Tharaka MP Gitonga Muragara consequently supported
the bill stating that the amendment is timely since it will deter cases of
content pirating prevalent in most parts of the country.  The lobby Group Partners Against Piracy (PAP)
is however opposing the amendment, specifically the proposed repeal of the ISPs
provisions, over claims that it will enable the continuation of fraudulent
online activities instead of addressing them entirely. 