Former State House Press Secretary Lee
Njiru now says that Kenya's founding father, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s death in Mombasa in 1978 could have been prevented if his close confidants could have worked in unison. In an interview on JKLive Show
on Wednesday, Kenyatta’s then information officer revealed that Minister
for State Mbiyu Koinange and Coast Provincial Commissioner Eliud Mahihu
neglected their duty to safeguard the first president's welfare as was their
sworn duty. He said that prior to his death at a
function in Msambweni, Koinange and Mahihu had intel that Kenyatta was unwell
but did not act upon safeguarding his welfare. “Eliud Mahihu and Alexander Gitau said they had no
powers to stop Mzee from going to Msambweni even though they knew he was sickly
and weak…” He stated. In defence of a post by Mahihu's daughter
Lucy Wambui complaints about Njiru’s narration of Mzee Kenyatta’s last
moments at the hands of her father, Njiru maintained that the pair would have
salvaged Mzee’s life if they had been a little more persuasive. “If Jomo Kenyatta expressed the wish to
jump into the Indian Ocean, would they not have stopped him?” He posed while responding to
Wambui. "There are many ways to stop a president from undertaking such a precarious
trip because it was life-threatening.” Njiru opined that the president’s mandarins
would have devised protective ways to bar the head of state from making the
trip since their duty is in service to Kenyans and his life was on the line at the time. “There are many ways to stop a president
from undertaking such a precarious trip because it was life-threatening. They could
have ganged up, Mahihu, Gitau, provincial police officer Gichuki, even the commander
of the Navy, Eliud Mbiru could have cheated Mzee for his own sake, that the ferry
at Mtongwe has broken down,” he explained. He added: “...Who could have known? To save a
president's life you can go to any length, you are supposed to go to any length.” In regard to the aftermath of the incident during Mzee's last moments, Njiru who insinuated that they did not make the necessary efforts to ensure he got access to
medical care despite the hospitals being nearby. "Okay let’s say they allowed him to go, when
he collapsed, why didn’t they go to the hospital? Pandya Memorial Hospital is just
across from the State House Mombasa." “Mbiu Koinange, his minister, friend,
brother-in-law, left Mzee sickly and took a flight to Nairobi…what was more
compelling on the part of Mahihu to leave Mzee in such a state,” Njiru insisted. He went on to allege that the confidants
claimed they had no power to prevent Mzee from travelling even
though they made adjustments in performances and entertainment. “They say they had no capacity to cancel
the Msambweni trip, then why on the same day did they cancel the entertainment
in the evening?” He noted.  