Kenyans will take
to the ballot next month to elect the next president of the Republic alongside
other leaders who will
govern the country in various positions. While the outcome
of the highly-contested presidential election is largely a subject of
speculation, for now, one thing is for certain; a change of guard will be
witnessed as the next president of Kenya takes the reins from the outgoing
Head-of-State Uhuru Kenyatta. The transfer of
power from one presidential administration to the next is one of the most
important processes in Kenya's democracy as it entails a change of policy and
personnel. Many assume that
the transition process occurs immediately after the elections but in reality,
it begins much earlier than that. According to the
Assumption of the Office of President Act, an incumbent government is expected
to establish a committee known as the Assumption of the Office of President
Committee to steer the process at least 30 days before a General Election. With the clock
ticking towards
the August 9th polls, President Kenyatta is any day from now expected to
gazette the list of officials who will sit on the committee that will facilitate his handing over to the President-elect. But what exactly
does the transition process entail? Looking back at changes of regimes that
have occurred in the past, Citizen Digital has broken down the process which
will occur on both a symbolic and practical level. During the
inauguration day, a presidential motorcade will be on standby at the residences
of the president elect and his deputy and they will be heavily guarded by a
contingent of General Service Unit (GSU) officers who will guide them to the
swearing-in ceremony. The presidential
procession, which will have a similar number of vehicles as the outgoing
president's normal fleet, will then proceed to the inauguration venue likely
be set at a national arena such as the Kasarani Stadium, as was the case with
President Kenyatta. While the President-elect
is expected to be sworn
in on the first Tuesday following the fourteenth day after the date of the
declaration of the presidential election results, if no petition has been filed, he will be afforded all the presidential
rights his predecessor enjoys even before taking the oath of office. While making his
way to the inauguration grounds, the incoming president will be briefed on
aspects of the state such as government structures, intelligence, state of the
economy and exact details of the swearing-in process. Prior to the
ceremony, the organising committee will send the presidential standard to the
State Uniform Committee for designing. The standard will be designed to the
liking of the president-elect. The names of all
guests and dignitaries who will attend the event will also be forwarded to the steering
committee by the president-elect and the outgoing Head-of-State.    The swearing-in
ceremony
runs from between 10am to 2pm with the event's grounds being opened to the
public as early as 6 am. Once all attending
Kenyans and guests settle, the President elect's motorcade and that of his
deputy will make their way into the grounds flanked by a military parade which
will be ready by the time they arrive. The outgoing president will
then avail himself for the handing over ceremony which will be preceded by a
short session of prayer and entertainment from a line up of artists. The Chief Justice will
administer the oath of office to the president-elect alongside the Registrar of
the High Court. Once the
president-elect is sworn in his deputy will likewise take the oath of office
after which President Kenyatta will hand over the symbols of power such as the Constitution and the sword of power to the
new president. The newly sworn
deputy president will then take to the podium to make an address after which he
will invite the outgoing president.
Their speeches will be prepared by the organising committee. After this, the
outgoing Head-of-State will welcome the next president of Kenya to the stage to
make his address.  The national anthem will be played as the presidential
standard is changed to conform to the new administration. The outgoing president
will then leave for State House to officially hand over the house on the hill
to his successor. In the meantime, the newly-sworn in president will
then be driven around the stadium in an open land rover to greet Kenyans in attendance after which he will
be driven to State House for a final sit down with the outgoing president. After exchanging a
few words, the outgoing president will vacate the premises to signify that a
new administration has officially ascended to power.   