Human rights activists led by Amnesty
International Executive Director Irungu Houghton have urged the government to
take legal action against police officers implicated in the 2017 murder of baby
Samantha Pendo in Kisumu's Nyalenda slum. Baby Pendo met her tragic end after police
officers reportedly smashed her head in while she was cradled by her mother,
Lencer Awino. The incident happened when protests rocked
Kisumu County in 2017 following the annulment of President Uhuru Kenyatta's
re-election by the Supreme Court. Despite a Kisumu Court finding five senior
police officers culpable for Baby Pendo's death in 2019 and directing the
Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) to take legal action
against them, the cops are allegedly still running around scot free. The
five are: AP Commandant Kisumu Central Benjamin Koima, Inspector of Police
Linah Koigei, former Kisumu East OCPD Christopher Mutune, ex-County commander
Titus Yoma and former OCS John Thiringi. Speaking
when he and other activists visited Baby Pendo's family in Nyalendo on Friday,
Irungu slammed the government for failing to wrap up the case almost five years
after the incident occurred. "I am here with members of Amnesty
International essentially to express once again our solidarity and our empathy
with the family of baby Pendo and particularly to her parents. We are here at
her home in Nyalenda and we have just learnt her parents moved homes in
anticipation of the elections," said Irungu. "Baby Pendo would have been 5 earlier
this year and in many ways for this family it is a constant reminder that this
country failed them at a time they needed our protection." His sentiments were echoed by human rights
activist Boniface Akach, who expressed concern that many Kenyans fear for their
safety ahead of the August General Election. "I think the experience that the family
of Baby Pendo faced is something that should never be repeated. No family
should go through what they underwent,” he said. “As we head into the general election, we
want everybody to be assured of their security. It is very sad that the family
of baby Pendo had to change houses out of fear of being targeted again." On his part, baby Pendo's father Joseph
Abinja urged Kenyans to maintain peace during the electioneering period while also
urging politicians to accept the results of the polls without creating problems
that may endanger the lives of Kenyans.