Deputy President William Ruto has once again reiterated that the Kenya
Kwanza Alliance is ready to add Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka to its ranks
should he sever ties with Raila Odinga's Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party. Speaking when he took his campaign trail to Kitui County on Tuesday, Ruto cited that he is
still surprised at Musyoka's decision to shelve his presidential aspirations in
favour of Odinga's despite the former premier reportedly reneging on an earlier
agreement to support the Wiper leader’s bid for presidency. According to Ruto, Raila has repeatedly disrespected and betrayed
Kalonzo in the past as such it is not in the Wiper boss' best interest to once
again back the Azimio presidential candidate at the August polls. DP Ruto went as far as saying that he would personally 'save' Kalonzo
from Azimio underscoring that Odinga's decision to overlook Musyoka as his
running mate is a clear indication that the ODM boss can easily throw anyone to
the curb should he so choose. "Kalonzo has been mistreated by Raila. He first lied to him that if
he backs his bid he will return the favour. After supporting him he told
Kalonzo it is impossible he has already chosen Martha Karua. I want to end
Kalonzo's troubles...I know he does not like me but I am ready to save him from
Raila," he said. After missing out on the running mate slot in May, Musyoka named Andrew
Leteipa Ole Sunkuli as his running mate. When making the announcement, Kalonzo
indicated that he jumped ship after being shortchanged in the Azimio alliance
where he hoped to be picked as running mate. “My brother Raila knows I am naming my running mate. He came to my house
to try and convince me to accept his choice. We did not agree and he said he
would choose Martha and I told him I would choose my own running mate," he
said then.  Musyoka would however rejoin the Azimio coalition party in early June
after he was promised the Chief Minister position in Odinga's cabinet
should the former premier occupy State House after the August polls.