 According to the 2019 Census report, Busia has a population of 893, 681 people spread across its seven subcounties of Funyula, Butula, Matayos, Nambale, Teso North, Teso South, and Samia. With less than 37 days until the General Election, succession politics have taken center stage; five candidates are vying to succeed Governor Sospeter Ojamoong, who is stepping down after a 10-year tenure. Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma is running on an ODM ticket, Nambale Member of Parliament Sakwa Bunyasi is running on an ANC ticket, ex-Busia County Education Chief Officer Daniel Mogoria is running on a National Agenda Party ticket, businessman Michael Olooon is running on a National Liberation Party ticket, and Deputy Governor Michael Mulomi is running on a DAP-K ticket. “When given opportunity, we must look back to ,Busia must be a real government that focuses on the needs of the people, I want by the time I am done with Busia, the Human development  Index should be at,” contender Paul Otuoma says. “Health workers should be at a higher level, health education, out of every 10 people ,7 people are struggling to put food on the table,we cannot continue like that for Busia,” “We have a lot of opportunities and reposition ourselves, invested our resources in strategic areas,improve infrastructure, tourism, we have had a burning desire to build industries, to create jobs, improve agricultural productivity, resource based development,” Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi says. “We want to raise our economic status by our own local source revenue not only to Busia, the national money is not enough if we build our own local source revenue, Busia has never earned 322million,” Daniel Mgoria, a contender weighs in. "We have had many challenges with road infrastructure, Kenya's trade is done physically through the Busia border, we transit more than 1500 trucks...road infrastructure is critical, unfortunately we have not been supported for the trunk road," The stage is set for the 5 contenders on August 9th, and their hope in the remaining days is to persuade 351, 048 voters in the county to vote for them. Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, who is running for governor for the second time after losing in the 2017 general election, believes Busia has yet to fully utilize its resource base. “Why are children not getting busaries, why is food an issue, why are we not creating industries,we are at the border why are we not the outlet to neighboring countries.You go to the CBD, and you think we have been in war, it is full of mud, ease of accessibility is important,” Otuoma asserts. Nambale Legislator Sakwa Bunyasi who has served as an MP for two terms suggests that Busia county is lacking economic leadership which he says is vital for the growth and development of the town. “We can build social capital among our people what matters is truly our state of economy, my competition is not the remaining 4 but the people of Busia, nobody is discussing we may. We may not be doing well because of the way we allocate resources and manage resources.” Bunyasi adds. According to Daniel Mogoria, Ex-education and Vocational Training Chief Officer in Sospeter Ojamoong's government, the solutions to the challenges that Busia residents face can only be delivered by strong and visionary leadership. “Initially it was not my intention to vie for governor but if the trailers give us 200 shillings, that is money, but you cannot collect money without services, so we will build toilets, showers, if we give them parking,” Mogoria says. Michael Oloo, a realtor and educator, says his agenda will center on empowering residents to participate in economic transformation. “I am here to work with people,turn their social economic life, reduce abject poverty, raise the standards of living in the county,” Oloo asserts. Similarly, the current deputy governor and Health Chief Executive Officer Michael Mulomi say he will continue with governor Ojamoong’s legacy and transform Busia County. “For busia I am a sure bet ,I am not coming to learn, you develop a team to support you, in the short time they have seen me they call me mchapakazi” Mulomi adds. Busia county is perceived to be an ODM stronghold, as evidenced by previous general elections. Political party formation politics are expected to play out in the 2022 race, with political parties such as the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP,K), National Liberation Party, and National Agenda Party competing under the Azimio One Kenya Party Umbrella, while Kenya Kwanza's ANC party has fielded their preferred candidate. Nonetheless, the candidates appear to be optimistic about the race. As residents of Busia prepare to vote, they hope for a leader who will transform the county. “Tunataka governor mwenyeakikujabusiaapressurizeserikalikuuitengeneze town, ,angalia CBD yaBusianikama reserve ,mvua ikinyesha tunapanda ndizi,” Kelvin Kubasu, a resident says. “Tunataka governor atabadilisha mjiwa busia iwe mji ambao mtu akifika ajue kweli ni border point….hospitali hakuna madawa, syringe, gloves” Vincent Wanyonyi, a resident of Busia says The Independent Electoral and Boundaries commission has cleared 5 candidates to contest for the Busia governor’s seat and so residents of Busia say that top of the agenda for anyone who clinches this particular seat should be improving healthcare and infrastructure. 