 While dismissing Mr. Kenyatta’s Wednesday directive that the price of a 2kg packet of maize flour be lowered to Ksh.100 from Ksh.205 across the country, Mr. Sossion termed it an unsustainable ‘quick fix’ for a matter which ought to have been addressed earlier during the Jubilee administration. “The food shortage in Kenya is simply a testimony of failed leadership. The funding is only going to maize; you have not sorted out the issue of cooking oil, beans and rice. The leadership has failed to protect agriculture,” said Sossion. “It is not sustainable. It’s a quick fix and if you read the details of it, it is a business deal,” added the trade unionist who was speaking during Thursday's Daybreak program on Citizen TV. The Head of State on Wednesday said the move is part of the government's stimulus programme aimed at cushioning Kenyans from the current high cost of living. "...being led by empathy and understanding and our desire to cushion our population from the rising cost of living, today my administration wishes to implement a 5th stimulus programme focusing on the Unga crisis. "Maize floor shall retail across the territory of the entire Republic of Kenya at Ksh.100 from Ksh.205 for a 2kg packet until otherwise directed," said Kenyatta. The prices take place immediately until further notice, he added. The president at the same time called out the political class as well as millers for the recurrent escalation of maize flour prices in the run-up to every General Election in the country. Suggesting that the 'Unga crisis' was not a coincidence, President Kenyatta said: "If the politician gets his votes out of it and the miller gets their profit, what does the common mwananchi get?  And in the end, who carries the burden of this mischief? The common mwananchi, of course!" "If my appeal to the millers is to practice a reasoned level of social ethics, my appeal to the political class is to exercise civic responsibility.  To politicize the pain of the vulnerable without offering solutions, is to mock the lifestyle of the same voters the politicians are appealing to," said Kenyatta. Mr. Sossion, however, faulted the Head of State for neglecting the agriculture sector and said complaints about it should not be termed as mere politicization. “Uhuru should just admit that he has failed in protecting farmers in this country and when we speak about it we are not politicizing. We are speaking the truth… and when Kenyans are starving it's a serious issue,” he said. Added Sossion: “If we could turn around our approach to agriculture and treat it as a national security, bring down the cost of fertilisers, ensure farmers get quality seeds and spur the food production, not just maize.”