 Mombasa County Returning Officer Swalhah Ibrahim stated in a letter to Sonko that the new developments were related to a Supreme Court ruling that upheld the former governor's impeachment. Sonko, according to Mr. Ibrahim, had previously been cleared by the IEBC after the Mombasa High Court determined that he had not exhausted all of his options for appealing his impeachment. "Through a petition number E027 of 2022 at the High Court, you challenged the decision of the DRC and on 13' of July 2022, the high court rendered a decision in which it observed that you have a pending appeal before the supreme court petition of appeal," the letter reads in part. "I wish to draw your attention to the fact that on 15' of July 2022, the Supreme Court of Kenya in the subject of the appeal held that your impeachment was procedurally fair and in accordance of the constitution: that you were removed from office for contravening the provision of chapter six of the constitution and that you have exhausted all possibilities of appeal or review of your impeachment." According to the IEBC, a person may be disqualified from running for office if they are found guilty of abuse of office or have violated Chapter Six of the Kenyan law. "In adherence to the supreme court judgement, you are therefore disqualified from holding any public office and thus disqualified from contesting and being elected as the Governor Mombasa County or any other county. Your candidature is invalidated and your certificate revoked," the letter reads. Meanwhile, Sonko, who is dissatisfied with the decision that effectively bars him from holding any political office, has petitioned the Supreme Court for a review of the decision. On Monday, he claimed that the decision was delivered too quickly and that the court did not give him enough time to respond appropriately. Sonko also filed a separate petition with the East African Court of Justice, claiming that the Supreme Court decision appeared pre-determined. According to Sonko, his oral request that Chief Justice Koome recuses herself from the case was denied. He claims that the CJ had already pronounced herself on the case in May while appearing for an interview with a local media house. 