President
Uhuru Kenyatta has reiterated his earlier stance that he does not wish to
extend his term in office as has been propagated by a section of politicians
from the opposing camp. The Head of State, speaking
during a non-denominational worship and prayer service with spiritual leaders from Central Kenya at State House on Friday, said his
only desire is to bequeath his successor a united, cohesive and peaceful
country. President Kenyatta said he is
looking forward to his retirement, stating – matter of factly - that he has no
intention of remaining in power beyond August 9, 2022. “I don’t want to remain in power
as they allege. This is a difficult job, no sleep…this house is full of
challenges and ten years for me is enough. I am waiting for 9th August,” the
President said. On
his political choices, the President said Kenyans have an opportunity to elect
leaders who have a proven track record of championing for the interests of all
Kenyans rather than those who are only seeking leadership for personal gain. He
further rooted for Azimio la Umoja One Kenya presidential running mate Martha
Karua noting that, despite being on opposing sides with her in past elections,
she has principles and stands by them. “Despite the fact that we have
never been on the same side politically with Martha, she is just and
principled. It is better I follow someone who is principled. Who is just,
truthful and led by the desire to serve people but not self,” said President Kenyatta. The President thanked the
religious leaders for their steadfast and continued backing, noting that the
progress achieved during his tenure was largely due to God's providence
courtesy of clergy's sustained divine intercession. He
emphasized the importance of peace, unity and cohesion during this
electioneering period, and regretted that some politicians were engaging in
deceitful, divisive and misleading campaigns. “You
have already introduced rebellion and you are roaming across the country saying
you have been wronged. A deal is between two people. If I am wrong you are also
wrong. You have no right to seek leadership by lying, insults and theft,” the
President said in reference to an unnamed politician. Once
again, the President counseled Kenyans to exercise their constitutional right
by electing genuine and progressive leaders whose motivation is to build a
strong and united nation. “We
are on a journey which will not end here. We have made a lot of progress in
terms of development. We have built several roads. We have issued title deeds
to many Kenyans who are now proud owners of their parcels of land. “We
have connected electricity to many homes besides ensuring 100 per cent
transition of our children from primary school to secondary school. We launched
cash transfer program to cushion the elderly and put up modern health
facilities to cater for Nairobi residents through NMS," the President
enumerated. The religious
leaders, drawn from the 21 counties that make up Central Kenya region, committed to assist their followers to
make right political choices during the August national polls, and to continue
preaching the message of peace, love and unity during the electioneering
period. On
his part, the President thanked the religious leaders for their steadfast and
continued backing, noting that the progress achieved during his tenure was
largely due to God's providence courtesy of clergy's sustained divine
intercession. The
service was conducted by Archbishop Jotham Karanja from Nyandarua County
while the sermon was delivered by Bishop Samuel Muya from Nakuru County. In
his sermon, Bishop Muya attributed some of the challenges facing the Kenyan
nation to the failure of the country's religious and spiritual leaders to
strictly observe God's teachings.  “Our
God is a God of order and is always against rebellion,” Bishop Muya told the
congregation.