The rapidly spreading monkeypox outbreak represents a
global health emergency, the World Health Organization's highest level of
alert, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Saturday. The WHO label - a "public health emergency of
international concern" - is designed to sound an alarm that a coordinated
international response is needed and could unlock funding and global efforts to
collaborate on sharing vaccines and treatments. Members of an expert committee that met on Thursday to
discuss the potential recommendation were split on the decision, two sources
who spoke on the condition of anonymity told Reuters earlier, but the final
decision falls to the U.N. agency's director-general. Announcing his decision to declare the health emergency
during a media briefing in Geneva, Tedros confirmed that the committee had
failed to reach a consensus, with nine members against and six in favour of the
declaration. Previously, Tedros has typically endorsed expert
committee recommendations, but the sources said he had likely decided to back
the highest alert level due to concerns about escalating case rates and a short
supply of vaccines and treatments, despite the lack of a majority opinion. Lawrence Gostin, a professor at Georgetown Law in
Washington, D.C who follows the WHO, said he applauded the political bravery of
the agency. "It does nothing but burnish the stature of WHO. The
right result is clear – not declaring an emergency at this point would be a
historic missed opportunity." So far this year, there have been more than 16,000 cases
of monkeypox in more than 75 countries, and five deaths in Africa. The viral disease - which spreads via close contact and
tends to cause flu-like symptoms and pus-filled skin lesions - has been
spreading chiefly in men who have sex with men in the recent outbreak, outside
Africa where it is endemic. Until now, the label had only been applied to the
coronavirus pandemic and ongoing efforts to eradicate polio. The WHO and national governments have been facing intense
pressure from scientists and public health experts to take more action on
monkeypox. Cases of the viral disease have ballooned since the
committee first met at the end of June, when there were only about 3,000 cases. At the time, the expert group agreed to reconsider their
position on the emergency declaration if the outbreak escalated. One of the key issues driving a reassesment was whether
cases - that are almost entirely proliferating amongst men who have sex with
men - would bleed into other groups, particularly children or others who have
been vulnerable to the virus in past outbreaks in endemic countries. On Friday, the United States identified its first two
monkeypox cases in children. Any changes to the virus itself could also spark a
rethink, the committee had said.  The group is now split between those who think an
emergency declaration would accelerate efforts to contain the disease, and
those who do not think the above criteria have been met because the disease has
not yet spread to new groups of people or had a high fatality rate, the sources
said.