President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged
securities agencies to continue embracing the multi-agency approach in dealing
with crime and safeguarding the security of Kenyans. President Kenyatta noted that the approach
has enabled security officers drawn from different agencies to collaborate
leading to a significant improvement in the state of security in the country. “I just want to once again say how great it
is when agencies work together, when agencies collaborate. When we move with
our multi-agency approach in terms of dealing with security matters, we are
capable of producing results,” the President said. President Kenyatta spoke on Thursday at the
multi-agency training camp at Kamanga where he presided over the passing out
parade of 256 Special Forces of the Administration Police (AP). The AP Special Forces comprised three
groups, the Special Recce Team (SRT), the Special Operations Group (SOG) as
well as the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT). The President congratulated the graduands
for their commitment, determination and hard work that enabled them to complete
the five months rigorous paramilitary training. “So today we are here to celebrate you, to
encourage you. You are now going to join an elite group of men and women who
for the last few years have been the tip of the spear in terms of protecting
the people of this country,” President Kenyatta said. The Head of State expressed optimism that
with the graduation of the fresh contingent of AP special forces, the country
can only be a much safer place and Kenyans can sleep peacefully knowing there are
men and women protecting them against those who would attempt to harm them. At the same time, the President assured
security agencies that the Government will continue to provide all the
facilitation required to enable them conduct their duties effectively including
the provision of modern equipment, weapons and vehicles. “I also want to assure you that we will do
everything that we can to ensure that we also cater for your welfare and that
of your families as you cater for the security of 50 million Kenyans,” the Head
of State added. Noting the graduands included 50 female
officers, the President said they will be joining a group of another 50 female
officers who have been doing a good job in dealing with crimes of various
nature in Nairobi and other cities across the country. During the occasion, President Kenyatta was
treated to a demonstration of the skills the officers have acquired, the climax
of which was a shooting competition where Administration Police Constable Noah
Andayi from SOG scooped the top prize while his counterpart Margaret Njoroge
from SWAT came second.  Interior Principal Secretary Dr. Karanja
Kibicho, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and Deputy Inspector
General Administration Police Service Mr. Noor Gabow also spoke at the ceremony
attended by several senior Government officials.