Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has
faulted the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party over his recent woes that
saw his bid to contest for the Mombasa gubernatorial bid dealt a blow by the
Supreme Court. Sonko opined that the current troubles
against his political ambitions not only affect him, individually, but will
also work against Azimio’s quest for power in the August polls. The ex-governor claimed that an alleged ploy
by the Azimio leadership to frustrate his Mombasa bid will disadvantage the
coalition party due to his vast influence across the country, which he said should
have worked to the outfit’s advantage. “Mahali Azimio wanaangukia ni kwa hii vita
mingi wananipiga sababu ya kuniogopa, because they know that Mombasa residents
have already decided. Mara IEBC, Chief Justice told to ensure I’m not on the
ballot…si mimi wanakosea, wanajikosea,” Sonko said in an interview with TV 47
on Thursday. “They are now looking down on me; huyu mtu
hawezi, huyu mtu hafai kusimama, huyu mtu ni bure…and that is costing them.” The embattled politician went on to allege
that if he had been on the campaign trail together with Azimio presidential
flagbearer Raila Odinga, the polls would by now be placing the former premier above
the 50 per cent mark against his competitors. “Even the 50 per cent which Azimio is looking
for, with the confidence and the respect I command from Kenyans, Raila would
already have the 50 per cent he is looking for,” Sonko remarked. “I have served Kenyans countrywide; in times
of drought I have been in West Pokot, Baringo, all these regions I’m respected.
I have helped Al-Shabaab victims in Mombasa, in times of MRC. By now Azimio
would have been popular everywhere in Kenya.” At the same time, the flamboyant leader further
alleged that he even has the necessary influence to push Azimio’s Nairobi
gubernatorial candidate Polycarp Igathe to victory in his quest for the
capital’s top seat.  “Vile mimi najiamini, nikienda na Igathe
Nairobi and tell residents that we differed but have now come together to
ensure development, and this is the candidate, vote for him…or if I had walked
with Igathe for one month, today Igathe would have been the incoming Nairobi Governor,”
he said.