A pet cat who has spent a harrowing three
weeks on the loose in Boston Logan International
Airport was finally found and is set to be reunited with
her family. The cat, fittingly named "Rowdy,"
escaped her kennel after the arrival of her Lufthansa flight from Germany on
June 24, according to a press release from the airport. Rowdy roamed the airport for a total of 20
days before finally being captured with a trap set by staff on Wednesday, says
the airport. "Whether out of fatigue or hunger we'll
never know, but this morning she finally let herself be caught," said the
airport in the release. "Searching for Rowdy became a community effort,
with everyone from construction workers to airline staff constantly on the
lookout hoping for a positive outcome." The airport handed Rowdy over to Boston's
Animal Rescue League, and she is expected to be reunited with her family on
Saturday at around 10 a.m., says the airport. Patty Sahli, Rowdy's owner, told CNN that the
frisky feline has always had an "energetic" personality. "She'd
fly everywhere," she said. She adopted the kitten four years ago for her
daughter, who is currently attending college in Pennsylvania. The mishap occurred amid a transatlantic
relocation. After 16 years living in Germany, Sahli and her husband made the
decision to move back to the United States to be closer to family. In May,
Sahli flew to Florida with the couple's other cat, an 8-year old rescue named
Iggy. Then, in June, her husband followed with Rowdy, who was placed in the
plane's cargo hold. When Sahli arrived at Boston Logan
International Airport to meet her husband and the cat, she received a call from
him with bad news. "When they unloaded the cargo section, the door of her
carrier fell out and she ran out chasing a bird," said Sahli. "Three
people tried to chase her but they were not successful." A three-week rescue operation ensued, with
Sahli contacting local animal shelters and animal welfare organizations for
help. Sahli said that officials at Massport, which operates the airport, told
her they thought Rowdy was likely in an underground part of the airport where
conveyor belts move cargo. So airport staff set up cages in the hopes of
catching the elusive cat, complete with Rowdy's favorite
"Temptations" treats and shirts from Sahli and her husband to attract
Rowdy using their familiar scent. Finally, Rowdy was caught with a trap set in
an area where several workers had reported sightings of the cat. "We're so glad it's a happy ending,"
said Sahli. "I couldn't think about what if we never found her, or she got
hurt." Staff at the Animal Rescue League shared
videos of Rowdy post-capture with Sahli, who said she "looks cool as a
cucumber in that rescue center." Sahli expressed her gratitude for the Animal
Rescue League, Massport, the construction workers, Lufthansa, and everyone else
who helped locate Rowdy. "Everybody took a personal interest and
everybody was so happy when it happened," she said.  "I can't wait to see her," she
added. "I'm so happy that it turned out this way."