 The High Court ruled that the MP, who is also Deputy President William Ruto's running mate in the August elections, had failed to demonstrate how he obtained the funds. In a series of tweets following the ruling, Mr. Gachagua described Justice Esther Maina's decision as "no surprise" to him and his lawyers. He accused Justice Maina of bias, claiming that she "refused our application to cross examine the Investigator in order to test the veracity of his allegations in violation of the rules of evidence." “She ruled that all evidence should be through affidavits and rejected oral evidence. She refused my request to call witnesses to testify on how I got my money,” wrote the embattled MP. While terming the ruling as an attempt to frustrate his deputy presidential candidature, Mr. Gachagua said his legal team will appeal the High Court’s decision. “The judgement was hastily rushed ten days before the elections in a futile attempt to undermine my candidature in the coming elections and dent my sterling performance in the running mates debate last week,” he said. “I have instructed my Lawyers to immediately file an appeal in the Court of Appeal to stay the orders and set aside the judgement.” In its ruling, the court noted that there was nothing to show that the MP executed the contract  so as  to get the funds. "Indeed he admitted he received from government agencies ....there was nothing to show of the contract has had been awarded a tender by that ministry...," the court noted. At the same time,  the court further dismissed the argument that the  Ksh.200 million shillings was in a fixed account. According to the Assets Recovery Agency (ARA), preliminary investigations established that Mr Gachagua and Jenne Enterprises Limited were involved in a suspected complex scheme of money laundering. The money in question is held at the Rafiki Microfinance Bank in three accounts registered in the MPs name; one with Ksh.165M, another with Ksh.773,228 and another with Ksh.35M. In late 2020, after Detectives from the Serious Crimes Investigations Unit at the DCI headquarters concluded a probe against the MP on alleged embezzlement of public funds, his accounts were frozen. At the heart of the matter was investigations into how some Ksh.12.5 billion was said to have passed through his accounts. Rigathi is suspected to have used proxies to fraudulently secure tenders using 22 companies  with him as the sole beneficiary. The funds emanated from the Ministry of Lands (Kenya Informal Settlements Programme), State Department for Special Planning, Ministry of Health, Bungoma County government, Mathira Constituency Development Fund, Nyeri County government and the National Irrigation Board. In June, during a campaign in the Konyu area of Mathira constituency, the vocal MP vowed to recover the money that was frozen in his accounts if Kenya Kwanza coalition clinches the presidency in the August polls. According to Gachagua , he would recover the money that was frozen in 2020 if the Kenya Kwanza Camp carried the day at the polls. “And you know if we take over the government… you know this government froze my money , when we take over, the money will be unfrozen,” the Mathira MP said in a political meeting in the area. The proceeds, Gachagua said, will be used to construct infrastructure at his home where men will have a fireside chat with him as women engage 'Mama Gachagua'. “I put up a good house and a small house ya wazee ya kuchomea nyama as they take their favourite drinks as we chat - sawa? "Then for women I put up a place where they can visit Mama Gachagua to take porridge as they sing and praise. And because women love dancing I will install a kinanda for dancing to,” Gachagua said in a bid to entice residents.