The Nairobi Hospital now wants
the Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA) to relocate a public footbridge that is
currently under construction on Ngong Road on grounds that the pedestrian
crossing can expose members of the public to the risk of radiation poisoning. The footbridge which links the
perimeter walls of Nairobi Hospital and Kenyatta Hospital ends at Nairobi Hospital's Cancer Treatment centre hence the concerns about radioactive exposure. “We are concerned about the
safety of radioactive materials fitted in our Cancer Treatment Centre. Indeed,
the hospital has demonstrated that the bridge can be moved several metres lower
or higher along the road, reducing the risks cited on its present termination
point,” Nairobi Hospital CEO James Nyamongo said in a statement. “It also exposes our power and
oxygen plants to potential terrorist or other criminal attacks.” According to Nyamongo, Nairobi
Hospital has been engaging relevant government officials on the construction of
the footbridge since February 2022. The hospital's efforts led to the temporary
suspension of the project but construction resumed recently. Nyamongo also argues that the
government erred by allegedly failing to conduct stakeholder consultations
prior to commissioning the footbridge
and by purportedly overlooking recommendations lodged by the nuclear regulatory
agency pertaining to the said radioactive facility. The hospital, through its
legal advisers, Triple OK Law Advocates, is ready to seek legal redress since its
grievances are yet to be addressed by the State. “The said construction as commenced contrary to the
provisions of the Environmental Management and Coordination Act (no. 8 of 1999)
for failing to engage in public participation and obtaining the views from
stakeholders who are likely to be affected by the project,” the advocates
stated in a letter to KURA. The hospital is demanding that the construction of the
footbridge be suspended to allow for inclusive consultations in accordance with
the Constitutional requirement of inclusive public participation and
stakeholder engagement. On Thursday, KURA dismissed requests by the Hospital to
stop the construction of the footbridge over noise pollution noting that it was a highly important project that could prove vital in curbing deaths attributed to accidents at the said
spot.  "Public safety is at the core of our mandate and
thus we cannot stop undertaking the footbridge construction which after
completion will save lives. The statistics of the pedestrians knocked around
KNH are alarming and thus a footbridge is urgently needed to avert more
deaths!" read a Tweet by KURA on Thursday.