Three
employees of Smartmatic International B.V, the company procured by the electoral commission
IEBC, to provide technology for the August 9th General Election were
arrested on Thursday at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. IEBC Chairman
Wafula Chebukati confirmed the arrest which he termed as “unjustified
intimidation, harassment and blackmail”. “The
three personnel, who are employees of Smartmatic International B.V., were
arrested upon arrival at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport from Venezuela.
This is despite the Commission Secretary/CEO explaining to the security
authorities that the three personnel were in the country to execute a lawful
contract relating to the deployment of technology in elections,” said Chebukati in a statement issued on
Thursday night. However, reports
indicate that the three Venezuelans were arrested after being found with several
rolls of election-related stickers in their luggage upon landing at JKIA. In his
statement, IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati claimed that the three Smartmatic
International were detained at
a “solitary hideout” without justification. “The
brazen decision of the security authorities to arrest, detain and confine in a
solitary hideout the three personnel without justification, is an exhibition of
intimidation on hardworking persons who are only keen to deliver a robust
technology infrastructure for conduct of a credible, secure and verifiable
election,” said Chebukati. The IEBC
Chairman demanded the immediate release of the three officials, warning that
their further detention could interfere with preparations for the polls which
are 17 days away. “The
Commission wishes to inform the public that the arrest and continued holding of
the personnel has the inevitable effect of hampering the deployment of
technology in the forthcoming General Election.  The Commission is concerned about this unjustified
intimidation, harassment and blackmail whatsoever and demands the immediate
release of the three employees of Smartmatic International B.V,” said Chebukati.