A company linked to Rigathi Gachagua has
moved to court over a land situated in Nairobi valued at 1.5 billion shillings. In the suit papers filed before the
Milimani law court the company - Wamunyoro investment Ltd claims that the two
defendants may at any time now illegally transfer, dispose of and/or alienate
the suit property to a third  party. John Michael Ohas and Columbus Two thousand
ltd have been named as the respondents in the case. Chief land registrar has also been named as
the third respondent. It is the company’s argument that if that
happens, it will complicate the dispute and also interfere with the Plaintiff's
right to enjoy quiet possession of its property. "Unless this Application is certified
urgent and heard immediately by this Honourable Court and the orders sought
herein granted, the 2 Defendant may proceed at any time to illegally encroach,
takeover and may actually dispose of and/or transfer the suit property to unsuspecting
third parties detriment of the Plaintiff thereby occasioning substantial damage
and loss hence the urgency of this Application," reads court papers Gachagua through the company says that it has always
been the lawful and registered absolute owner of and that he holds title in
respect of the same which was issued on 18 June 2012 ("the first
title"). The property is charged to Equity Bank
Limited as collateral for various financial facilities granted to the
Plaintiff. He claims that defendants have illegally
and fraudulently obtained a second title on the property while the Plaintiff's
title is still in existence and have deliberately tampered with the records at
the Lands office in respect of the suit property such that any official search
on the suit property currently indicates that the 2-4 Defendant is the registered
owner of the suit on the exclusion of the Plaintiff. Through lawyer Phillip Nyachoti, Gachagua
now wants the court to order that the tittle deed in Possession of the two
defendant was obtained fraudulently, irregularly and illegally and that the
same is therefore invalid, null and void.  The company also wants the court to order
lands registrar to rectify the register in the Land's office to cancel all
unlawful entries on behalf of the 1" and 2 Defendants and indicate the
Plaintiff as the lawful and proper registered.