Sci-fi aside, how long will you live? Cento
di questi giorni. May you have a hundred birthdays, the Italians say, and some
of them like Father Antonio Bianchi do live to blow an impressive hundred candles. Born in Verbania, a Piedmontese town on Lake
Maggiore, Father Bianchi was ordained in 1946 at the Consolata missionary
institute in Turin, before being assigned to Portugal. There, he began to
cultivate a passion for the street kids in the suburbs, and his passion for
soccer led him to found a soccer school that, after 75 years, is still active
and bears his name. “I was born in a good family; we enjoyed the
joyful life of sharing a meal and a prayer before going to bed. At age eleven,
myself and a friend of mine decided we should go to the seminary,” he recalls. In 1954, Father Bianchi embarked on a journey
to Kenya, a place he has called home for decades. “Luckily, I received a new
mission and the destination was Africa. After thirty days on a journey with an
old boat that was put aside to decay, we completed our journey,” he said. On his arrival, Father Bianchi found a nation
fighting to attain its independence from her colonial masters. In spite of his failing eyesight, he peers
through thick lenses and reads local newspapers every day. At a hundred years,
he is a man of formidable intelligence as well as splendid memory. So, what is
his secret to longevity and vitality? “I keep sharp by reading the news daily, I
like to be aware of the things happening, because I am still alive, I am a
hundred years but eventually I could do something. I also read the death
announcement page because I might find someone who I knew in my life,” he said. “Do not hold a grudge or bitterness, it will
keep you from flying. I can’t remember a point in my life when I was
disappointed or angry at someone. People have been very good to me in many
occasions.” Father Bianchi notes that reaching the
threshold of 100 years excites him and he cannot wait to see what more life has
to offer.  “I am very happy I got live a whole century
but honestly, I don’t know how I got here, only God does and if it’s His desire
for me to continue living then that’s what I will do. I am happy by the fact
that people are happy because I lived to a hundred years,” he notes, adding
that in the end he can proudly say that his life has been joyous and
fulfilling.