Chief Inspector of Police Maxwell Otieno, the
last witness to testify in the Monica Kimani murder case, took to the witness
stand on Tuesday where he was cross-examined by Joseph Irungu's lawyer Prof. Hassan
Nandwa. Otieno told the court that investigations
revealed that the accused, who was armed with a pistol when he visited Monica's
house, used the firearm to make the deceased submit. “The firearm that
was used by accused number one to shoot himself inside their residency at Royal
Park was the same one he armed himself with while going to the murder scene,”
said Otieno. “I said that this
firearm was an alternative murder weapon, I did not observe any defensive marks
on the body of the deceased. The first accused person used the firearm to make
the deceased submit, because ordinarily you will encounter defensive marks on
somebody who is being attacked, there was none.” Otieno also alleged that there was prior
planning before Monica was murdered as the probe showed that the main suspect
had used someone else ID to access the deceased's house, was armed with a
firearm despite not being a licensed firearm holder, and the burning of clothes
that the suspect was allegedly wearing on the fateful night. “I suspected also that
the clothes, the white linen and the grey jacket that were burnt by the accused
persons outside their residency, were also blood stained and that was the
essence of burning,” he said. The court allowed Jacque Maribe's statement
to be produced in court. The statement, which is Maribe's confession on what
transpired, has been objected to by Jowie who says it will implicate him. Justice Grace Nzioka noted that the admission
of the statement will not prejudice Jowie since he will have an opportunity to
cross examine. “The second accused
person who recorded the statement has no objection to the statement being
admitted as evidence and this court cannot deny her an opportunity to adduce
whatever evidence she so wish to adduce,” stated Justice Nzioka.  Maribe's lawyer Katwa Kigen is from Wednesday
expected to cross examine the witness.