Nominated Member of Parliament Jennifer Shamalla and Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Boss have differed on IEBC’s directive of rejecting a manual voter register in the August elections. According to Boss who backs the Independent and Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s (IEBC) decision, the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya outfit should not reprimand the commission to go against the decision with only about 30 days remaining to the polls. The MP says that the Raila Odinga-led camp had all the time to push for the commission changes but has waited for the last minute to raise concerns, something she opines is due to panic. “It’s in really bad taste that people are taking cases to court against IEBC. They had so much time..these regulations have been available to all of us all this time and if they wanted to go to court they could," said Boss while in an interview with Citizen TV's JKLive Show on Wednesday night. "Prior to 2017, there were  48 cases around election regulations taken against IEBC. IEBC was in such a state of confusion that they didn’t answer some of them. It’s almost like terrorizing the electoral commission before it runs the election, you are going to leave them tattered and exhausted and not have time to do their work.” Boss goes further to argue that the IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati was justified in his move since the printed register that was initially used for counter checking can be prone to leaking voters' personal information. She points out that since it uses identification details alongside other credentials such as location and contact, it may be used for malicious purposes. “What type of register are we talking about because seven days to the election, the register is put at the polling station, it is a printout, called the truncated register, hanged so that anybody can check if they are registered?"  she posed.  “The reason why no one wants the one with ID numbers in the polling station is because your ID card number can be used to retrieve your data from the KIEMs kit.”  She added: "You can go to the IEBC and buy the register, but it does not have the identity cards and telephone numbers. For a reason. They are not put there for a reason; It forces the station to have to seek clearance that is not open to abuse. The one with IDS is open to abuse." Shamalla on her part, however, maintained that the manual register is vital in affirming the credibility of the electoral process since it serves to countercheck against the data in the KIEMs kit.  She raised concerns that if the printout is not available during the process, then it gives leeway for voters' misrepresentation using other people's IDs. "If anyone can enter, all the more reason you need the voter register with the ID, then we want to have the agents there to verify the people that come to the polling stations," the MP explained. "My worry is that the reason why the ID number is not at the polling station is that anyone can enter the KIEMs kit if they have the ID number... I can foresee a situation where anyone with anybody’s ID can come and vote because the number is not there." This follows Odinga's remarks that the Azimio faction would boycott the election if the IEBC did not include a manual register as stipulated in the constitution.      