A statue of India's national emblem, unveiled this week atop the
country's new parliament, has been slammed by government critics for its
"unnecessarily aggressive" appearance. Officials maintain that the 10-ton bronze sculpture, which depicts four
lions, is an enlarged like-for-like
replica of the ancient statue the emblem was modeled on. But opponents were
quick to suggest that the creatures had been given intentionally
"snarling" expressions and sharpened teeth, describing the alleged
move as a symbol of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's politics. The 21-foot-high statue was unveiled Monday at an inauguration ceremony
in New Delhi attended by Modi, who partook in a prayer at the site. The Indian
prime minister later posted a video of the event, as well as footage of him
meeting laborers involved in building the soon-to-open parliament. The statue is based on a 3rd-century BCE sandstone sculpture known as
"Lion Capital of Ashoka", which was erected on a pillar by the
Emperor Ashoka at Sarnath, in present-day Uttar Pradesh. Following India's independence from Great Britain in 1947, a
two-dimensional rendering of the statue -- featuring three of the lions, with
the fourth obscured from view -- was adopted as the State Emblem of India. Today, it features on official government letterheads, as well as the country's
passports and currency. Jairam Ramesh, a
member of parliament with the opposition Indian National Congress party tweeted
to say that the newly unveiled statue changed the "character and nature of
the lions," describing it as "a brazen insult" to a national
symbol. Jawhar Sircar, a
politician in the Indian parliament's upper house, meanwhile described the
lions as "snarling, unnecessarily aggressive and disproportionate." Other
high-profile figures also weighed in, with lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan
suggesting that the depiction of "angry lions with bared fangs"
reflected the current political climate. "This is Modi's new India!"
he tweeted. Prominent
members of Modi's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spoke out in defense of
the statue, however. Politician Amit Malviya, who heads the BJP's IT division,
said there had been "no change" in the lions' appearance. "The
opposition is comparing 2D images in print to an imposing 3D structure,"
he wrote. "They have lost it." Senior
government minister Hardeep Singh Puri, meanwhile attributed alleged differences
to the new statue's larger size and height, arguing that the ancient original
"would look as calm or angry" if viewed from below. "Beauty is
famously regarded as lying in the eyes of the beholder," he tweeted.
"So is the case with calm & anger." Appearing on TV
news network India Today on Tuesday, the sculptor behind the work, Sunil Deore,
said the lions' teeth were simply more visible when viewed from beneath. Demonstrating with a scale model of the statue, he added: "The angle makes
a lot of difference." "If you
check its proportions and the proportions of my lion, it has been enlarged
exactly," he said, before claiming: "My brief was to create a replica
of the (original) sculpture. Deore also
denied suggestions that anyone had asked him to enlarge the mouth or make the
lions appear angrier. But the
criticisms leveled against Modi's government were not solely about the lions'
appearance. Some opponents
saw Modi's involvement in Monday's inauguration ceremony -- especially in the
absence of opposition leaders -- as breaching the constitution's separation of
legislative and executive powers. Others considered Modi's prayer offering as
inappropriate, given that he was opening a secular national building. "As head of
(India's government), @PMOIndia shouldn't have unveiled the national emblem
atop new parliament building," tweeted Asaduddin Owaisi, a member of
parliament and leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen political
party. The new
parliament, announced less than three years ago, is expected to open in
October, just months after the upcoming 75th anniversary of Indian
independence. The building forms part of the Central Vista Redevelopment
Project, a $1.8 billion overhaul of New Delhi's historic administrative center
that has attracted criticism from politicians, architects and heritage experts
over the cost and timing of the works.  Supporters of
the project have argued that the current parliament is unfit for purpose. The
building's architect, Bimal Patel, told CNN last year: "We need to improve
the technology, we need space for dining, we need to create toilets, we need to
create storage space, and office and administration space -- it's very clear
that it can't be done in the space available."