Questions have been
raised about Roots Party leader Prof. George Wajackoyah's British citizenship. Former presidential
candidate Peter Gichira has written to the British High Commission seeking
clarification on Wajackoyah's citizenship to the UK. Mr. Gichira, in a letter obtained by Citizen Digital, cites
Prof. Wajackoyah's recent announcement that he previously attempted to run for
a parliamentary seat in the UK where he lived as a refugee. To be eligible to vie
as an MP in the United Kingdom, a person must be at least 18 years old and a
citizen of the United Kingdom, a Commonwealth country, or Ireland. On the other hand, to qualify to run for the presidency in Kenya, IEBC says one must firstly be a
Kenyan citizen by birth who does not owe allegiance to a foreign state. They also must not
hold dual citizenship, says the commission on its website, “unless citizenship
of the other country has been obtained by operation of law without capacity to
opt out.” It should be,
however, noted that Kenya is a member of The British Commonwealth. Mr. Gichira, through
his lawyers, sought to know whether Prof. Wajackoyah was actually a British
citizen, and if so, if he had renounced his rights in order to be eligible to
vie for Kenya’s top seat. “We write on behalf
of our client to get clear clarification on whether the above-named candidate
is a British Citizen, and if so, has he renounced such citizenship rights?”
read the letter. He added that Article 78 (1) of Citizenship
and Leadership states that a State Officer or a member of the defence forces
should not hold dual citizenship. He further quoted the
Article which stipulates that the aforementioned clauses do not apply to any
person who has been made a citizen of another country by operation of that
country's law without the ability to opt out.  “Your urgent and
considerate assistance shall be highly appreciated noting the strict timelines
with which the upcoming elections are to be held and the ballot papers ought to
be printed in advance,” added Mr. Gichira.