Deputy President William Ruto has hit out at a section of his
political competitors for claiming that he has anger management issues. DP
Ruto, speaking in Kisii County during Kenya Kwanza campaigns on Wednesday,
affirmed that he is indeed filled with anger, but just at the state of affairs
in the country. According
to the DP, there is nothing any Kenyan should be happy about owing to the
direction in which the country is headed. He
accused the opposition camp of coming into government and interfering with its
plans and operations, thereby derailing service delivery to the people. Ruto
intimated that the opposing camp is at a happy state because they’re not aware
of the problems bedeviling the ordinary Kenyan due to their stature. “Ati
wanasema ati mimi nimekasirika, sasa nataka niwaambie nyinyi hamjakasirika,
nyinyi mnacheka kwa sababu hamjui shida ya wananchi,” said Ruto. “Watu
kama wameharibu serikali na mipango ya Big Four, wametuletea matatizo, bei ya
mbolea imefika shilingi elfu sita, bei ya gorogoro imefika shilingi mia mbili,
hiyo ni maneno ya kufurahia? Hawa watu wakituona tumekasirika, ni kwa sababu
mambo si mazuri,” The
Kenya Kwanza chief urged the opposing political camp to cease talking about
anger issues during their rallies but rather address pressing matters. He
solicited support of the area residents in his presidential bid ahead of the
August showdown, vowing to fix address their concerns. “Wale
wanafurahia yale maneno ambayo yanafanyika Kenya ni watu ambao hawaelewi ni
nini inaendelea. I want to tell our competitors, let us not talk about who is
angry and who is not, what is going on in Kenya is serious. The people of Kenya
cannot afford food, the price of basic commodities has gone up, many Kenyans
sleep hungry, that is not something to be happy about, and that is why some of
us are concerned,” he stated. “Stop
telling us that we are angry, of course we are angry with what is going on in
our country. Millions of young people are trekking, they have no jobs. Millions
of families are sleeping hungry, many people in Kenya cannot afford basic
commodities. Yes, we’re not happy, and that is why we want to change the state
of affairs in our country.”  These remarks come after Defence Cabinet Secretary on Tuesday
accused the DP of having anger management issues following a 2018 incident in which he
claimed Ruto wanted to slap him. 