 Addressing the issue which has dominated political discourse for nearly a week now, Kenyatta said had Ruto dared to slap him he would have handled it the Biblical way where the scripture says: “if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.” Kenyatta, who was speaking during a meeting with religious leaders from Mt Kenya at State House Nairobi, explained that after the nullification of his election by the Supreme Court, he was willing to let go of the seat for the sake of peace in the country hence the reason Ruto got agitated. “Let me ask you, because he (my deputy) has been going around telling you that I made a mistake by shaking Raila’s hands, tell me, have you heard since then of chaos or violence between people from different communities? Have we not enjoyed peace since 2018? Tell me the mistake I made, that they say they wanted to slap me for,” said Kenyatta. He added: “If he would have slapped me, I would have turned the other cheek because I have no time or place for violence.” The president went on to reveal that his deputy and other individuals were not ready to allow room for dialogue with the then-rival camp led by ODM leader Raila Odinga, yet the country was tearing apart. “A deal has two people, it never has one… In 2017 you all know what happened, we were almost heading back to the 2007 situation. Those in Nairobi and live among other communities know what I am talking about…we started hearing a kiosk has been burnt there, someone has been killed there… “Unfortunately, my deputy and some other people did not want me to dialogue with Raila, they were asking me why I was talking to him, and I told them, because they are Kenyans, and won’t leave this country, do you want Kenyans to die in bloodshed? What is wrong with talking to them, if that will result in peace and harmony? I told my deputy, I differ with you, I will embrace dialogue, if that is what will lead to peace. So, I talked to Raila, we forgave each other for the many bad things we had said about each other and shook hands,” said Kenyatta. During the meeting, Kenyatta emphasized the importance of peace, unity and cohesion during this electioneering period, and regretted that some politicians were engaging in deceitful, divisive and misleading campaigns. “You have already introduced rebellion and you are roaming across the country saying you have been wronged. A deal is between two people. If I am wrong you are also wrong. You have no right to seek leadership by lying, insults and theft,” the President said in an indirect reference to his deputy. Kenyatta reiterated his desire to hand over a peaceful country, saying he is looking forward to his retirement, and that he had no intention of remaining in power beyond August 9th. “I don’t want to remain in power as they allege. This is a difficult job, no sleep…this house is full of challenges and ten years for me is enough. I am waiting for 9th August,” the President said. 