As the country draws
closer to the August General Election, various prominent family members have
come out to freely exercise their freedom of association by aligning themselves
with the country’s top opposing camps in the upcoming election – Kenya Kwanza
and Azimio la Umoja One Kenya, setting the stage for a sibling showdown. In what can be a
demonstration of how the Kenyan democracy has matured, some of these family
members have not only pitched camps on opposing sides but are also vying against
each other. In some cases,
couples have also found themselves in a scenario where they are supporting
different candidates Here are some of the
family members who are going toe to toe in the coming elections. Tim Wanyonyi and
Moses Wetangula Though they have been
in the same political formation in the last two elections, Westlands MP Tim
Wanyonyi and his brother Moses Wetang’ula, the Bungoma senator will head to
this coming General Election in two opposing wings, and depending on the
election outcome, one of them will enjoy the trappings of power. Wanyonyi is seeking
to retain his MP seat on an ODM party ticket – a constituent party within the
Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance – while Wetang’ula; one of the co-principals
in Kenya Kwanza will be seeking to retain his Bungoma senate seat on Ford Kenya
ticket. Moses Kuria and
Aloise Kinyanjui Chama Cha Kazi (CCK)
Party leader Moses Kuria and his younger brother Aloice Kinyanjui have in the
past spearheaded President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda, especially in Mt Kenya. The two, however, went
their separate ways when MP Kuria joined the Kenya Kwanza camp and declared his
support for Deputy President while Aloise remained in Jubilee. Aloise is currently
contesting for the Juja MP seat, where he will face Kuria’s former ally, George
Koimburi, who won the UDA nominations in Juja. Okoth Obado and
Hellen Odhiambo The political
division in the Migori County governor's household is an interesting one as
Governor Okoth Obado has sworn his allegiance to UDA presidential candidate.
William Ruto while his wife Hellen Odhiambo is campaigning for a Raila Odinga
presidency. The political
division in the county boss’ home has become so heated that Hellen denounced
her husband’s name; Obado after the latter was appointed Kenya Kwanza Nyanza
regional coordinator. “Raila is vying for president, I am vying as a
woman representative but he has my vote… do not associate me with the
governor’s legacy and anything to do with him,” Hellen who is also vying for
Migori Women Rep seat said. Peris Tobiko and
Keriako Tobiko Environment Cabinet
Secretary Keriako Tobiko and his sister, Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko might
enjoy a cordial relationship as siblings, but when it comes to politics, the
two are arch-rivals. Peris has not only
been on the receiving end of her brother Keriako - an adamant supporter of
Azimio la Umoja One Kenya – for supporting Ruto’s presidential bid but also her
husband Kishanto Ole Suuji. Sometime last year
Suuji and Peris clashed over Ruto’s rally that was organized in their home in
Kajiado. Suuji chased away a team affiliated with Ruto from their homes before
filing a complaint at the police station accusing the UDA presidential
candidate and his allies of intruding on his property. Keriako on the other
side has also been at crossroads with Peris over remarks he made while
referring to Ruto as a “mere clerk”. His remarks sparked a
war of words between allies of DP Ruto and those of Raila prompting Peris to,
later on, apologize on behalf of her brother. Prof Kithure Kindiki
and Prof Isaiah Kindiki A few weeks ago,
Azimio la Umoja One Kenya presidential flag bearer set tongues wagging after he
appointed Prof Isiah Kindiki as one of his chief agents hours after Ruto also
appointed Isaiah’s brother Senator Kithure Kindiki to lead his camp in a similar
capacity. The two brothers have
been on opposing sides for years, with the senator missing out on the Kenya
Kwanza running mate slot to Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and announcing that he
would take leave from elective politics after the August 9 elections. Ong’odo Were and
Hillary Kiplang'at Kosgei These two MPs who are
from rival political parties are more than colleagues in the August House; they
are in-laws. Kasipula MP Charles
Ong’odo Were of the ODM party and Kipkelion MP Kipkelio West MP Hillary Kiplang'at
Kosgei of UDA  are both first-time
legislators and both served in the same Environment and Natural Resources
Committee in the 12th Parliament. The political rivalry
between the two was first put to in 2017 when their father-in-law's burial when
they both attended the ceremony while accompanied by large delegations of
supporters. At the event, the master of ceremony made the mourners aware of the
predicament that existed between the two politicians and hence, no political
pronouncements were made. Their political
rivalry was put to test for a second time during a standoff in Parliament
following the nullification of presidential elections and ODM vowed not to
recognize the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Though the two
lawmakers have faced several hurdles in their line of work due to their
differences in political allegiances they say their relationship has withered
the storm. "Those moments
did not separate the closeness we had with Were, we knew that politically we
were from different sides. But we used to have tea meet and forget whether
there is ODM or Jubilee and just become family," Kiplang'at told KTN
during an interview. Mutahi Ngunyi and
David Chirchir With the political
temperatures already high in the country, Mutahi Mgunyi has become a critical
member of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s think tank in matters of politics and
governance.  The outspoken
political analyst is, however, a brother-in-law to David Chirchir; the Chief of
Staff in the Deputy President’s Office and a key strategist in Kenya Kwanza.
The two are married to the daughters of Ambassador Ernest Cheruiyot Lang’at.  The political split has not spared the first family either. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his cousin Captain Kung’u Muigai have been on the same political side for some time now. Still, in this coming election, the two have decided to take different paths. President Uhuru, who is the chairman of the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya council is supporting his handshake partner and Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Kung’u on the other hand has been pushing the GEMA community to rally behind Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential bid. In a previous interview, Kung’u noted that he could not support Raila presidency just like his cousin since he felt that the Kikuyu community has a political debt to pay the deputy president. "When that statement of yangu kumi yake kumi was made, it raised a lot of heat and I convened a meeting as the patron of the Kikuyu Council elders. We adopted the proclamation and that is where we stand to date because when an elder says something, they can never go back on their word," Kung'u stated as reported by a local daily. Though he is in opposite political formation, Kung’u has maintained that he has nothing but total respect for the president and the former prime minister. 