A deal allowing the export of Ukrainian grain
through the Black Sea has been signed in the Turkish city of Istanbul on Friday. This came after months of negotiations
between Ukraine and Russia mediated by Turkey and the United Nations, UN
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Friday. The deal is aimed at resuming grain exports
from Ukrainian ports, which have been blocked by the five-month conflict
between Russia and Ukraine. Western officials have accused Moscow of
"weaponizing" food supplies, while the UN, leaders and experts have
warned of a catastrophic food crisis as grain shipments have not been able to
reach the global market. Some 20 million tons of grain are held up in
Ukraine, where the summer harvest is now well underway. The agreement will include three Ukrainian
ports, including Odesa, it will involve a Joint Coordination Center established
in Istanbul, and agreed safe corridors for merchant shipping. According to Serhii Ivashchenko, director of
the Ukrainian grain traders' union the deal to resume grain exports from Black
Sea ports is "the way out" of the current export crisis, "Because now, when we transport grain through
European ports, the cost of logistics is so high that it eats up not only the
profits of farmers, but also the cost of production," he explained Friday.
The cost of transporting grain through Constanta in Romania was two-thirds of
the selling price, he said. "Now Ukrainian farmers were forced to
sell grain at a loss. And unblocking the ports will reduce the cost of
logistics quite significantly," he said. The cost of transporting grain through the
Black Sea ports would be about one-tenth of the delivery of grain to European
ports. The union is looking at the agreement signed
in Istanbul "with optimism," Ivashchenko told CNN. "We are
waiting for the published document to analyze it." "Ukraine concluded an agreement with the
UN and with Turkey, and not with Russia, this is also a positive sign," he
added. "To unblock the harbors of Ukrainian
ports, where ships were specially flooded in order to complicate Russian
landings from the sea, we have quite optimistic forecasts now," he said.
"It may take only a few weeks and it would be great if so." "Now a new harvest has started and we
expect that the wheat harvest will be about 21 million tonnes. With such a
harvest, we could export 13-15 million tonnes of wheat. Plus the harvest that
we still had left (from 2021-22)," he added.