The High court has issued orders barring any sub-division or
interference with ownership of the Kenyatta University land that has been at
the centre of a spat between the institution's management and State House. Environment and Land Court judge Oscar Angote issued the
orders on Friday pending the hearing and determination of a petition filed by the
Law Society of Kenya against the National Land Commission, Lands CS and six others. "THAT pending the hearing and determination of this
Application inter parties, this Honourable Court be pleased to issue orders
restraining all the Respondents their agents, successors and assigns and or
issuing an order staying the implementation of the directives contained in the
letters dated 4th July 2022 and 7th July 2022 and or subdividing, annexing,
alienating, and or any interference with the ownership and possession of the
parcel of land known as Land
Reference No. 11026/2," reads part of the court order. Justice Angote further barred the government from harassing
any employee, officials, agents and or representative of Kenyatta University in the enforcement of the directives involving the land in question. The court has also issued orders preventing professor Shem
Migot Adholla from surrendering the title of the said parcel of land.  Through lawyer Ahmednasiir Abdullahi, the lawyers' body blamed the Kenyatta University council and the Attorney General for not conducting public participation in the land issue. Ahmednassir submits that LSK will show that actions by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua have been used for purposes of concealing illegalities and further to profit and benefit corrupt individuals at the expense of the university contrary to the law and public policy. The matter has been scheduled for inter partes hearing on
July 25, 2022. The Kenyatta University management has been embroiled in a
dispute with the government over the utilization of a 338-acre piece of land
adjacent to the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital
(KUTRH). The feud saw the institution's vice chancellor Prof. Paul Wainaina
sacked and a new council appointed to lead the university. Prof. Wainaina recently revealed that he was pushed packing
for failing to cede the title deed for land to the State following a Cabinet
decision to sub-divide the land. According to Prof. Wainaina, 30 acres of land were set aside
by the Cabinet for the World Health Organisation (WHO) to establish a Ksh.600
million hub on the grounds adjacent to the Kenyatta University Teaching,
Referral and Research Hospital (KUTRH) while 10 acres were to be allocated to
the African Centre for Disease Control and Prevention.  The Cabinet likewise allotted 108 acres to KUTRH while 190
acres were reserved to settle squatters from Kamae settlement scheme.