Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has
committed to continue helping veteran boxer Conjestina Achieng following a
heartbreaking photo of her current condition that went viral this week. Sonko,
taking to social media on Saturday, said he had dispatched one of his vehicles
to Conjestina’s rural home to help transport her to Mombasa for prayers. He said
that, following consultations within the family, they had resolved to have
Conje - as she was popularly known - now consider prayers after past
rehabilitation efforts hit a brick wall. “I've
singlehandedly helped her before, taken her to various hospitals & rehab
centers including Nairobi County rehabilitation center in Parklands, Diani
Beach among others where she gets full recovery and discharged than when she
gets back to shags after a while gets worse again,” Sonko stated. “However
despite my busy court schedule and tribulations, I have decided to continue
helping her including taking her to Mtumishi prophetess Mary Kagendo for
prayers. I am just now dispatching a car with my team to Siaya to facilitate
her movement and I'm also humbly appealing to any well-wisher who’s willing to
help.” According
to the ex-governor, Conjestina’s son Charlton Otieno reached out to him requesting
for his help as he decried financial constraints in the family. “I want
to thank you for all that you have done to Conje…we have been advised to take
her for prayers and we believe it is going to work,” read a WhatsApp message
from Charlton to Sonko, in screenshots posted by the politician. Charlton
added: “We have someone in mind but we are going through financial constraints,
kindly support.” As he
appealed to well-wishers to help in supporting the family, Sonko also took a
swipe at fellow politicians in the country accusing them of neglecting the boxing
great. “I'm
truly saddened by this WhatsApp message from Conjestina's son. Our leaders are
busy campaigning while one of our shujaas who once made this country proud is
currently languishing in poverty and needs help due to her ill health,” he
stated.  Conjestina
was diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder in 2011.