 Prof. Wainaina is reported to have been in opposition to a decision by the government to allow WHO set up the hub on the grounds adjacent to the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital (KUTRH). On Saturday, during a groundbreaking ceremony for the project, a visibly-agitated President Kenyatta lectured the university management telling them to know that the land is public property and they are just but caretakers of the property. The Head of State went ahead to warn that those opposing the project would be health with "swiftly and very effectively." “Some people don’t just seem to get it. It is not your property. It is public property. You are just a caretaker. And when you recognise that, and also recognise a whole government approach. Then you also recognise that Kenya has never operated in isolation. Kenya is a respected member of the global community. On top of that, Kenya throughout her history is recognised as a very strong supporter of our multi-lateral institution,” said Kenyatta. He added: “Alafu unaenda huko kusema hii shamba ni yako... shamba yako kutoka wapi? Hii ni shamba ya wakenya. Lakini bado nimebaki wiki tatu... we shall deal with those people swiftly and very effectively. Tutaenda nyumbani na wao. We can’t have people operating as individuals.” Among the high-profile guests at the event was WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus. The University council is set to unveil Prof. Wainaina's replacement. According to Prof. Wainaina the idea to cede part of the land to WHO was not in the best interest of the university as no consultations were done. Kenyatta University and the Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital have been embroiled in a row over ownership of the land in question. On Saturday, President Kenyatta said the Government has allocated 30 acres of land adjacent to KUTRRH and committed USD 5 million (Ksh.600 million) towards the operationalization of the hub to facilitate the commencement of its operations. He added that the Government has also provided WHO with rent-free office space at the KUTRRH to accommodate the initial staff component of up to 150 officers needed to start preparations for the establishment of the hub. “This space has been identified on the Training Research and Innovation (TRIC) building of the KUTRRH,” President Kenyatta said. Kenya is one of the three African countries selected by the WHO to host a logistics hub that will be equipped with emergency medical personnel, commodities and equipment to support countries with emergencies in Eastern Africa. Senegal and Nigeria are the other two African countries selected to host the WHO hubs that will also be centres of excellence in emergency medical training with a capacity to respond to over 100 crises at a time. 