The Ethics
and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has seized assets worth Ksh.100 million
belonging to an officer of the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KERRA), Kajiado
County Office. The
officer, Esther Wanjiru Chege, is believed to have fraudulently acquired the
assets including millions of shillings and 13 parcels of land scattered in
various towns including: Kiambu, Nyandarua, Naivasha, Makueni and Kajiado. In a report
issued on Friday, EACC said Wanjiru is under investigation “for alleged
conflict of interest, embezzlement of public funds and unexplained wealth.” The
anti-graft body seized the 13 title deeds after the assets were frozen by the
High Court in Machakos on July 19, 2022. The court
also ordered that Wanjiru’s Equity bank account holding Ksh.3,295,271 be frozen. “EACC
believes that the bank account is being used as a conduit for depositing and
transferring proceeds of corruption at the Kenya Rural Roads Authority,” noted
EACC. The EACC
report further indicates that between January 2016 - May 2022, Wanjiru transacted
Ksh.26,359,921 through the said bank account. “Currently,
her net monthly salary is Kshs. 116,640,” added EACC. Wanjiru is
suspected to have, jointly with others, siphoned public funds through companies
registered through proxies and relatives. Her partner
Robert Macharia Kimotho is one of Wanjiru’s the suspected accomplices. “Together
with her partner Robert Macharia Kimotho, they operate a school bank Account
under the name St. Sharon Secondary School where money is sent from their
company accounts to and before its transfer to their personal accounts and M-Pesa,”
adds EACC According
to the anti-graft agency, a company by the name M/s Rokays Enterprise Limited
registered by Wanjiru’s her spouse/partner Mr Robert Macharia Kimotho, who is a
Director of St. Sharon Secondary School in Nyandarua, received over Ksh.5 million
from KERRA. Another
company, M/s Reswan Enterprises Limited, registered under James Chege Njoroge, a
brother to Esther Wanjiru Chege, is said to have received about Ksh.20 million
from KERRA. Other companies
where Wanjiru is registered as bank account signatory and which have traded with
KERRA and received payments include Kaydtech Enterprises Limited, Reswan
Holdings Limited and Resro Holdings Limited.  EACC will
be seeking to have any assets corruptly acquired by Wanjiru be forfeited to the
state.