Azimio la Umoja One Kenya deputy president candidate, Martha Karua, has said that for the first
time in Kenya's history, the upcoming General Election will present Kenyans
with the opportunity to elect people who have actively fought for the country's
liberation. Speaking at the Catholic University of East Africa on
Saturday, during the 'Million Women for Martha' initiative launch, Karua said she and Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga are prime examples of
politicians who have fought to liberate Kenya from oppression in terms of advocating for
gender inclusion and equality. "In this country, people who have fought for liberation
have never occupied the presidency. At Independence it is not those who fought
in the forests who occupied. After the 2002 liberation, it was not those who were
in the trenches that occupied it; we went into government but we were not in
the presidency," she said. "This is a unique time; it is the only time that those
who have fought for liberation are likely to sit in the presidency. Make it
happen." Taking a walk down history, Karua gave an example of how
Odinga championed for women rights,  referencing a time when she, alongside other Members of Parliament,
Odinga included, attended the United Nation's fourth world conference of women
held in Beijing, between August and September 1995. The aim of the event was to advocate for women’s rights and
challenge gender inequality worldwide. According to Karua, apart from a handful of female
politicians such as herself, nominated Senator Beth Mugo and Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu only one male MP brought back motions from Beijing and tabled them before Parliament for
deliberation at a time when advocating for women rights was not the
norm. That MP was Odinga. "But then there was one man who brought a motion
seeking to establish a gender commission and that man was Raila. The late
president Mwai Kibaki used the motion to establish a gender commission way
ahead of the 2010 Constitution.  "Raila didn't just think of women because it was a
campaign season; it is something he has done before. He has supported motions
by women politicians and this is something I remembered when he named me
running mate."