Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has
trashed the Friday Supreme Court ruling that dismissed the appeal challenging his
impeachment and upheld it, thereby effectively locking him out of the race for
Mombasa County’s top seat. Addressing the media on Saturday, Sonko
faulted Chief Justice Martha Koome for being part of the seven judge bench that
delivered the ruling claiming she was compromised. He argued
that the CJ had previously already expressed her stand about his case in the
media, an action he says showed her impartiality thus arguing that she was not
supposed to be among the judges administering the ruling. “Heri
nishindwe kwa haki lakini si dhulma. Martha Koome was heard on media saying
that an impeached governor remains impeached until the case is overturned, a
prisoner remains a prisoner until his appeal is upheld and the case is
overturned,” Sonko stated. “She was
at fault because contrary to the law, the fact that she is a Supreme Court
judge, she was not supposed to be in my case ruling because she already had an
opinion that I am not supposed to be a governor and in the IEBC list.” The ex-county
boss cited a past directive by CS Koome to lawyers Nelson Havi and Ahmednasir
Abdullahi that barred the pair from speaking publicly on ongoing court cases,
failure to which they would face a six-month imprisonment. In
consequence, Sonko now wants the CJ to step down from her position saying she
should also have a taste of her own medicine as she is not above the law. “Martha
Koome is not above the law, I am not against her, I respect her but she should
not be the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. I want her to step down in a
respectable manner, I am not saying this because I was disadvantaged by the
ruling but I have my own reasons,” he stated. “She has
defied the directive that one shouldn’t comment on an ongoing case…ajichukulie
hatua na ajifunge miezi sita for defying her own order.” Sonko
reiterated that he would not shy away from fighting for his rights, noting that
he will still be in the Mombasa Governor’s contest come August. He
however remained discreet on his game play, pointing out that he would inform
of his decisions and plans later. “I will
be on the ballot, the law allows me to be on the ballot. The decision of the
Supreme Court was recused, there was forgery,” he said. “I will speak on my future plans... This case
has been heard and determined without having the chance to present our
evidence." At the
same time, the embattled politician maintained that the decision by the
seven-judge bench on Friday was skewed claiming it was rushed through and he
was not accorded adequate time after the Mombasa ruling on Thursday. “As the
judge of the Supreme court, she should have given me seven days or 10 days I
finish up with the Mombasa High Court, what was the hurry? Have you ever seen a
case been done today then determined tomorrow? The ruling was a contrary
process,” he said. During
the hearing on Friday, a joint verdict delivered
by the judges ruled that the impeachment proceedings against Sonko before
the Nairobi County Assembly and the Senate were properly conducted in
accordance with Article 181 of the Constitution, Section 33 of the County
Governments Act and Standing Orders of the Assembly and the Senate.  “From the record and submissions before this
Court, we come to the irresistible conclusion that the impeachment of the
appellant was in compliance with the Constitution and the law. We, therefore,
find no merit in the Petition of Appeal,” ruled the Apex Court.