Deputy President and Kenya Kwanza
presidential candidate William Ruto has implored Kenyans to maintain peace and
shun divisive leaders as he carried out his campaigns in parts of Trans Nzoia,
Bungoma and Busia counties. As he criticised the opinion polls that have
placed his main challenger above him in popularity, the DP hit out at his boss
President Uhuru Kenyatta, once again telling him to stop meddling in the
succession race and allow him to face Raila Odinga head on. “Nimeambia
Uhuru Kenyatta sishindani na wewe na hata siombi kura yako, wewe kaa kando
wachia mimi Raila nimelizane na yeye…ata kama anataka amsupport kutoka huko
nyuma…huyu mtu tutammalizia asubuhi,” said DP Ruto on Tuesday. The Kenya Kwanza leaders claimed the opinion
polls that have since placed Odinga ahead in popularity were doctored to favour
him and lay ground for their opponents to challenge the outcome of the election
if they lost. “Hii opinion poll
mnatengeneza ya ukora ili mkatae mambo ya uchaguzi tukiwashinda, ati ndio mambo
ya handshake iendelee Kenya hii, tunawaambia tutawamalizia asubuhi na mapema,”
stated the DP. Kenya Kwanza
co-principal Moses Wetangula said: “Out of over 22 million plus votes,
wamefanya sampling ya elfu mbili…that cannot be a sample that is representative
of any factual situation…na sisi tunasema opinion poll or no opinion poll,
Raila tunaenda kumshinda asubuhi na mapema.” With 27 days to the August polls, and with
the campaigns having already raised political temperatures, Ruto assured Kenyans
of a peaceful transition. “Tunataka
uchaguzi wa amani, hatutaki vurugu, hatutaki fujo, hatutaki matusi, tunataka
uchaguzi wa amani kwa sababu tunaamini kwa mambo ya democrasia,” he said. In Kitale, Trans Nzoia County, the DP waded
into the issue of the controversial ADC land which squatters have since invaded. “Hapa
Kitale wale wanaishi hapa tutadegazette, tutawapatia title deeds na mtaishi
hapa…siku mtatoka hapa ni kuenda mbinguni pekee yake. Tutanunua ekari milioni
moja ili tuhakikishe wale wote ambao ni masquatter tuwatafutie mahali pa kuishi
kutumia pesa ya seikali,” said Ruto.  The Kenya Kwanza campaigns move to Kakamega,
Vihiga, Nyamira, Kisii and Migori counties on Wednesday.