Nairobi Governor aspirant Johnson Sakaja has vowed
to absorb 1,600 healthcare workers that were hired on contract by the Nairobi
Metropolitan Services (NMS) if elected into office come August. This after Sakaja met health sector officials
at his campaign headquarters on Tuesday where they apprised him of the challenges they
face and sought to get his commitment to address them once elected. “Many of the health facilities in Nairobi,
including all the new ones that were recently launched are neither staffed nor
operational. They were launched at night but the real picture is that they are
not serving the public,” Kenya Union of Nurses Nairobi Branch Secretary Boaz
Onchari said. The officials said promotions have not been
done in many years, and some employees have moved up only one grade in about 20
years. “Our sector has had the most strikes because
our issues have not been addressed. Many staff employed in the year 2010 have
been on probation for 12 years,” Onchari said. “Are they supposed to spend their whole
working life on probation where they can’t even get a loan with a payslip that
shows they are not permanent employees? We were shocked that this monster
called NMS in the last financial year returned Ksh.538 million that had been
set aside for promotion of staff.” Sakaja, who is vying for the seat on a United
Democratic Alliance (UDA) party ticket, pledged to absorb the medical staff
into the leadership of his administration. “The sacrifices of health workers is not
appreciated enough. You put in so much and receive so little. Health is the
most important devolved function and no governor should put health in the
periphery,” Sakaja said. He pledged that his administration will ring
fence health funds so that facilities never run out of commodities and finance
for essential services. The Clinical Workers Union Nairobi branch
Secretary Tom Nyagaka called for the formation of a work council where the
county government and union officials sit regularly to iron out labour relation
issues in order to forestall strikes. “Most of the strikes mostly arise due to
misunderstandings. We are just interested in order and dignity of our members.
We have good policies and all we are asking for is for the policies to be
implemented,” Nyakaba said. The medical officers protested that only
doctors are promoted to the responsibility of running hospitals, arguing that
even lower cadre employees like nurses and clinical officers can also do the
job.