A man in Mombasa County has been awarded Ksh.1,200 by the Employment
and Labour Relations Court in a case where he had sued his employer over
illegal termination. In the case
filed in 2019 through the ​​Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels Educational
Institutions and Hospital Workers, Joel Tipapa Nolpoor sued St. Bakhita Girls Rescue Home,
demanding Ksh.308,652 as
compensation. Nolpoor claimed the school employed him as a day security
guard on June 6, 2018, only to terminate him after a year. According to him, the termination was done without a valid
reason and warning. He further states that there was no adverse warning during
the employment period. “On May 10, 2019, the respondent issued a new letter of
employment for the same one [1] year tenure but omitted the gratuity in the earlier
letter,” Nation quoted Nolpoor as telling Justice Byram Ongaya. He further told the court that he applied for renewal of the
contract after expiry on May 31, 2019, to which the school refused. He was seeking Ksh.35,145.80 one-month salary in lieu of
termination notice and annual leave for one year, Ksh.60, 874 for underpayment
of wages, service gratuity at 10 percent of the basic pay equivalent to
Ksh.1757.20. The former security guard also wanted a 12 months’ salary compensation for unlawful termination
at Ksh.210,874 and a further declaration that his sacking was unlawful. During the case hearing, however, it emerged that the
plaintiff was paid an additional Ksh.3,000 per month for the extra duties of
milking cows. Justice Ongaya, in his ruling, noted that the plaintiff’s
contract term lapsed and there was termination by effluxion of the contractual
term. He further termed Nolpoor’s alleged unfair termination as
misguided, saying: “The prayer for declaration of unfair termination and
compensation are declined.” The judge further ruled that the contract having been for a
fixed tenure of one year, the claim for pay in lieu of termination notice could
not be allowed. “The Court finds that parties were bound accordingly. The
court further finds that the claims for under payment and house allowance were
unjustified,” said Ongaya. He also noted that Nolpoor had misrepresented the facts
while claiming for payment, such as the fact that he was paid house allowance
and that it was not true that he earned Ksh.9 000 a month. Nolpoor, it was also discovered, did not also specifically
plead the relevant minimum wage order applicable and how the computed figure was thereby arrived at. “The claimant has failed to do so and the claims and prayers
in that regard will fail. In conclusion judgment is hereby entered for the
claimant against the respondent for payment of Ksh.1, 200,” said Onyaya. The school was additionally ordered to issue Nolpoor with a
certificate of service per section 51 of the Employment Act, 2007.