 According to Junet, the agreement that would see party leaders Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetangula (FORD-Kenya), Alfred Mutua (Maendeleo Chap Chap) and Amason Kingi (PAA) allocated top government positions if Ruto becomes president is an "elaborate con game". "Musalia, Wetangula, Kingi and Mutua have been conned by Ruto. These four men have been allocated positions Ruto said would not exist... Our friends you are conned in an eleborate con game and wash wash scheme. You won't survive our thoughts and prayers are with you," said Junet. Junet pointed out that the conditions set by Ruto to his partners within Kenya Kwanza coalition including Mudavadi, Wetangula, Kingi and Mutua to deliver during the August polls are unrealistic. In the elaborate power structure first reported by Citizen TV, Mudavadi is allocated the Prime Cabinet Secretary slot if Ruto clinches the presidency, Wetangula (National Assembly Speaker),  Kingi (Senate Speaker) and Mutua (Cabinet slot). Mudavadi and Wetangula are reportedly required to deliver at least 70 per cent of the Western Kenya votes, Kingi (50 percent of Coastal votes) and Mutua (30 per cent of the Ukambani votes) as a condition for the respective positions and other goodies. Junet further accused Ruto of purporting to introduce a position that was in the BBI which he (Ruto) strongly opposed. "Ruto has opposed the BBI vehemently for the last five years and now today he is creating the same positon BBI was advocating for... He spoke at Bomas 1 and Bomas 2 like someone from the moon and told Kenyans that we do not need positions. Today he is dishing the same positions to Musalia and other people. That tells you what kind of character we are dealing with; a hypocrite per standard... now he is reinventing BBI through the back door," said Junet. Junet's sentiments were echoed by ODM deputy party leader Hassan Joho who said that the votes Ruto has asked the Kenya Kwanza co-principals to deliver is pure modern slavery. The two leaders were addressing the media in Malindi on Thursday before kick-starting a series of rallies across Kilifi County led by Azimio leader Raila Odinga.