A new report has revealed that 26 per cent of
girls from low-income backgrounds in five countries; Kenya, Uganda, Burkina
Faso, Ethiopia and Malawi, recorded unplanned pregnancies as a result of
limited access to modern contraceptives, antenatal and abortion care during the
COVID-19 pandemic. The report – ‘Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on
Sexual, and Reproductive Health Services’ - was done by Africa Population and
Health Research Center (APHRC), Amref Africa and Planned Parenthood. It showed that the pandemic resulted in a
spike of unintended pregnancies, unsafe abortions, increased sexual and
gender-based violence as well as maternal and neonatal deaths. The report also highlighted that the
availability of sexual reproductive health services dwindled during the
pandemic, with Kenya recording 18 per cent of health facilities that lacked
abortion supplies. According to the study, COVID-19 responses to
the pandemic diminished access to sexual and reproductive health services and
quality care, besides exerting tremendous pressure on Africa's fragile
healthcare system. Evelyne Opondo, Senior Regional Director for
Africa at the Center for Reproductive Rights, said reproductive health services
are essential and governments must accord the highest protection of
reproductive rights to women and girls. “The reproductive health rights of the entire
populations to access sexual reproductive health services including during a
pandemic remain a key responsibility of every government,” said Ms. Opondo. Kenya also recorded a 72 per cent stock out
of abortion pills, medically referred to as mifepristone/misoprostol, across
various health facilities. Dr. Emmy Igonya, Research Scientist at APHRC,
intimated that the strict lockdown measures imposed by governments during the
pandemic denied women and girls access to healthcare. "During the pandemic women and girls who
wanted to access healthcare in specific places were not able to due to the
lockdown and curfew in parts of the country,” she said. Nelly Munyasia, the Executive Director of
Reproductive Health Network in Kenya, noted that governments should
institutionalize inclusive and client-friendly services. "Governments must institutionalize client-friendly
trainings and sensitization of health providers to ensure effective service
delivery in the wake of a pandemic," said Munyasia.  Kenya further recorded 19 per cent stock out
of implants during the COVID-19 pandemic with most health facilities converted
to isolation and treatment centers.