A Kenyan teacher has received global
recognition for his efforts in fighting tobacco use and addiction among local
youth. 56-year-old Joel Shunza Gitali, a Kiswahili
teacher at Busia’s St. Stephen Bujwang'a Secondary School, was on Friday
awarded the World Health Organization’s (WHO) global prize for his works in
tobacco control. The annual WHO award, which is classified in
two categories – the WHO Director General Special Recognition Award, and the
World No Tobacco Day Award – fetes standout individuals and corporations who
actively campaign against tobacco use in each of the six WHO regions. The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries was also recognized for introducing alternative crops in tobacco
growing areas. “Tobacco control is important because it
promotes health. It enables people to change their habits and become healthier
and protects passive smokers. It also helps those who have not began smoking
not to start,” Gitali said in a statement. “It also protects the environment because
tobacco plants and cigarette butts are hazardous to the environment. When you
look at tobacco growing areas, they are the poorest. Tobacco brings little
income which the poor use to pay for the treatment of diseases they develop
from handling tobacco leaves.” Having been brought up by his mother, a community
health volunteer, Gitali’s affinity for health was nurtured at a young age.
Marrying a nurse for a wife likewise moulded Gitali into the flourishing
anti-tobacco activist that he is. In 1995, for instance, Gitali – who is the
current Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance chair – launched the Social Liberation
and Health Promotion Club in Maseno to spur social and cultural change to
enhance good health practices in the area. A year later, he would get to experience
first-hand, the hold that tobacco has on the country’s youth when he served as
a guidance and counselling teacher. “Students addicted to tobacco and drugs
have a problem of not concentrating yet the school environment doesn’t permit
them to smoke,” Gitali noted. “Such students become defiant, they steal
from others in order to buy cigarettes. They also sell books and so can’t
perform well.” According to the Ministry of Health, tobacco
consumption directly contributes to approximately 9,000 deaths in Kenya each
year. It is also one of the four risk factors raising the burden of NCDs in the
country. These deaths, the ministry says, can easily
be avoided if persons give up the highly addictive drug.