A Microsoft Africa Development Center (ADC)
initiative, the Game of Learners (GOL) engages directly with students
regardless of the higher education institution they come from. The program’s main objective is to establish a
fun, hands-on learning experience for students. Born virtual, GOL is a program without
borders. It provides a virtual environment where students learn computer
science technologies and practices hands-on while they build impactful
solutions for their community. All GOL activities are supported by volunteers
from Microsoft and partners as coaches, mentors, judges, speakers and trainers. GOL is formed like a sports league, starting
with a season, and followed by off-season clinics and exhibitions. To participate, students who respond to the
call to participate are vetted as per requirements, and if they succeed, they
are allowed to participate. Overall, the program provides a platform for
Microsoft Learn Student Ambassadors to hone their leadership skills as Team
Captains while leading and building impactful solutions with the learners. One overall winner (team) will be selected at
the end of the season. Besides having the winning team featured on the GOL site
along with announcements on social media, participation in the Game of Learners
is not an end to itself but an opportunity to be a part of a continuous journey
in developing and growing their technical skillsets and setting them up for
their careers. The Game of Learners airs every Wednesday on
the Citizen Digital App, which can is available on the Google Appstore.  Making the Cut In this episode we will have a look at the
process of how the participants are chosen and what makes them ideal for the
show. Something about them that stands out from the rest of the people who
applied. After the participants are selected, here we
will see the process of where the Captains of the teams are chosen. Where team
members get to know each other and choosing of the name for the teams. Here the participants will be taken on the
theme of the show, what is expected from them and what they are allowed to use
as a means to coming up with a proposition. This is the intense part of the show as we see
the participants try to scramble and come up with a presentation for the
judges. Here the participants, led by the captain will be showcased on the ups
and downs involved in coming up with the a solution to the challenge presented
to them. This will be a break from the normal exercise
of the participants, we will get to see a side of the participants that is fun
and how they like enjoying their free time. This is important as it brings a
bit of relief in the midst of chaos. This will be the day that the teams will have
to get their acts together and come up with a presentation that they have been
working on for the past weeks. The pitch/presentation before the judges will
decide whether or not they make it for the final three teams. Here is the episode where we get to know the
top team that has emerged victorious. We will also get a feel of how it was,
coming up with the winning solution from the members and the help from coaches.
Here is where we will see how the team endured the tough times and work
together for the win.  Here will be an overview from some of the most
memorable moments from the just completed season of the GOL show, and even
maybe some of the moments that did not make it in the final edits of the
previous episodes.