The U.S. Army has signed a deal to buy $687
million (approx. Ksh.80.2 billion) worth of anti-aircraft Stinger missiles to
replenish stocks sent to Ukraine, sources said on Friday. The shoulder-fired anti-aircraft Stinger
missiles made by Raytheon Technologies were in hot demand in Ukraine,
where they have successfully stopped Russian assaults from the air, and in
neighboring European countries which fear they may also need to beat back
Russian forces. The contract for a total of 1,468 Stingers
was awarded Wednesday, according to a document reviewed by Reuters. There was
no timeline for completion of the work, but it was estimated delivery could
take up to 30 months. The Pentagon and Raytheon did not immediately
respond to requests for comment. U.S. troops have limited use for the current
supply of Stingers -- a lightweight, self-contained weapon that can be deployed
quickly to defend against helicopters, airplanes, drones and even cruise
missiles -- but the United States needs to maintain its supply on hand while it
develops the next generation of a "man-portable air defense
system." On May 6 the Pentagon's chief weapons buyer,
Bill LaPlante, said that he had aimed to sign a contract by the end of May and
that the intent is to replace the Stinger missiles sent to Ukraine one-for-one. Since February, the U.S. has shipped about
1,400 Stingers to Ukraine. U.S. allies also want to restock the weapons they
shipped to Ukraine in recent months. The Stinger production line was closed in
December 2020, the Pentagon has said. In July 2021, Raytheon won a contract to
manufacture more Stingers, but mainly for international governments, according
to the U.S. Army. Raytheon Chief Executive Greg Hayes told
analysts during an April 26 conference call that the U.S. Department of Defense
has not purchased a Stinger in 18 years. "Some of the components are no longer
commercially available, and so we're going to have to go out and redesign some
of the electronics in the missile of the seeker head. That's going to take us a
little bit of time." The sole Stinger facility, in Arizona, only
produces at a low rate.