Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has dismissed claims of being Deputy
President William Ruto's project in the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya coalition
party saying that he still remains their political rival. This
comes after DP Ruto made remarks purporting to defend Kalonzo from a plan by
the Azimio coalition to vet candidates seeking the running mate position
including Kalonzo. Speaking
in Mlolongo, Machakos County, on Thursday, Kalonzo distanced himself from
allegations of associating with the DP Ruto-led camp as he emphasised his
loyalty to the Azimio coalition. “Others
are saying that UDA members are defending me; I don’t want UDA to defend me, I
want to defeat them,” Kalonzo said. “I don’t have any relationship with UDA at all; I am a person of
integrity, I want to defeat DP Ruto and his wheelbarrow team so that Kenyans
can find a way to move forward, it won't be possible." Since
his hesitation to apply for the running mate position, Kenya Kwanza leaders
have been traversing the country accusing the Azimio leadership led by Odinga
of mocking Kalonzo by subjecting him to an interview. “Though we are competitors, to subject HE Kalonzo to some humiliating
'interview’ is impunity. We must unite to eliminate the culture of political
deceit, the hallmark of some politicians. Whatever the circumstances every leader
deserves some dignity and respect. Heshima si Ottumwa,” Ruto wrote on Wednesday. Similarly,
the Wiper leader rubbished allegations of being indecisive saying that his aim
is delivering the country from corrupt leaders and overseeing the victory of
his camp. “I have
seen in the newspapers that Kalonzo is between a rock and a hard place; I want
to tell them, that no one can prevent Kalonzo. In this business of leadership,
it is not about love and affection, it is about saving the country from
looters,” he stated. “Already,
they have stolen and they are trying to bribe voters with the looted wealth. I
have always said, kazi kazi bila wizi, na tena nikasema inawezekana, and
that is why we came up with the Azimio-OKA coalition.” On the
contentious subject of running mate, Kalonzo defended his refusal to appear for
the interview saying: “I respect the elders chosen in the panel and the
coalition’s council, let them not think that I am being difficult or proud. Kenyans
are saying that Kalonzo has been Kibaki’s vice president for 5 years, he has
been Raila’s running mate in 2013 and 2018; which kind of an interview am I
being subjected to?” He
added: “Mimi nilisema kwa heshima sitaenda kwa interview.”  The Azimio
coalition has since shelved the plan to hold interviews to select Raila’s
running mate.