First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has urged health
sector stakeholders to prioritise early diagnosis of heart diseases by
intensifying awareness creation, access to information, diagnosis services and
early treatment. The First Lady said success in tackling
cardiovascular diseases require more research, data collection and public
knowledge necessary in identifying symptoms of the illnesses especially among
heart attack patients. Further, the First Lady said there was an
urgent need to expand partnerships, mobilize more resources and develop human
capacity as well as formulate legislation and policy interventions needed to
address the rising cases of cardiovascular ailments. “I applaud the advances that have already
been made by our Government and all partners represented here in prioritizing
cardiovascular diseases through preparedness initiatives across the country,”
First Lady Margaret Kenyatta said. The First Lady spoke on Thursday evening when
she officially opened this year’s Africa STEMI Live Congress where she rallied
stakeholders to intensify their efforts to defeat heart diseases on the
continent. At the same time, the First Lady called for
personal commitment in the search for healthier lives saying good health was
critical for economic growth and societal progress. She urged cardiovascular health stakeholders
in Africa to focus more on the training of healthcare providers and provision
of life-saving drugs in remote areas so as to ensure that people affected by
heart disease have access to primary health services. “It involves training (some of which is being
offered during this Conference) and access to life-saving drugs especially in
hard to reach areas. Clot breaking drugs ensure that a patient stays alive
before they can reach a hospital that will place them in a comprehensive
intensive care unit,” she said. The Africa STEMI Live Congress 2022, which is
being held in Kenya for the third time in five years, has brought together
cardiovascular health professionals and partners from both public and private
sectors in Africa, America, Europe and Asia to explore opportunities for ending
the deadly ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) heart attack. Once again, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta
applauded local initiatives geared towards addressing cardiovascular and heart
diseases in the country such as the Kenya Country Preparedness Initiative and
the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) amendment that includes cover for
acute heart attack treatment in Kenya. “These interventions have all contributed
towards the impact we jointly seek - to strengthen the resilience of our health
systems by giving wider access to treatment and further addressing financial barriers
that have hindered many Kenyans seeking treatment,” the First Lady said. She thanked organisers of the conference for
their commitment and deployment of resources needed to collectively address the
rising burden of cardiovascular diseases globally. “I am especially encouraged by the extensive
partnerships that have been forged since the initial Africa STEMI LIVE in 2017
featuring partners from the African continent, Asia, the United Kingdom, China,
the Ministry of Health, members from the Pan-African Society of Cardiology, the
Kenyan Cardiac Society, Heart Attack Concern and hospitals in Kenya,” the First
Lady appreciated. She also praised the STEMI program for
exploring homegrown solutions to the growing cases of heart attacks and
cardiovascular disease as well as showcasing the latest developments and
solutions for the management of heart ailments. Speaking at the meeting, Chairman of Heart
Attack Concern Kenya Dr Robert Mathenge said few Kenyans access the standard
heart attack healthcare recommended by the World Health Organization and called
for the introduction and implementation of a standard care protocol in the
country. Dr Mathenge thanked First Lady Margaret
Kenyatta for her continued commitment to the fight against heart diseases in
the country noting that the recent reform of the NHIF law to include heart
patients was progressive. On his part, the President of the Pan African
Society of Cardiology (PASCAR) Professor Elijah Ogola decried the absence of
comprehensive healthcare services in Kenya saying there were only eight
cardilabs in the country out of which seven are located in Nairobi and one in
Mombasa. Professor Ogola called for urgent devolution
of cardiovascular healthcare services to the Counties as well as adoption of
preventive measures to curb the disease.  The conference was also addressed by the
President of the Kenya Cardiac Society Dr Bernard Samia, Director of
Philips-East Africa Dr Muthoni Ntonjira and Africa STEMI Co-founder Dr Awadh
Mohamed among others.