The National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) has
re-launched its Self Service Mobile Application to include Boda Boda and
driving schools. In a statement on Friday, the authority notified the public
that the app will now offer an elevated experience to members of the public
when verifying the validity and status of different licenses. Currently, the app which is free on Google Playstore is designed
to provide real-time information to clients. NTSA says the development will see extended services such as
motorcycle owners and verification of driving school licences by instructors
and owners. “The re-launch has seen an expansion of the NTSA App's
capabilities from supporting the public transport sector to accommodating
verification of Boda Boda certificates and driving school instructor licences,”
NTSA said in a statement. Members of the public who already have the old app are now
encouraged to reinstall it to acquire the new developments. In the said changes, the multi-agency body has now
enabled the public to vet different public transport vehicles and their drivers
to enable adherence to road safety measures and reassure of their own personal
safety. For the new option of Boda Boda operators, both the public
and enforcement officers will be able to verify the registration details of the
rider with only the national ID number of the rider. In this category, the
app will provide the ID number and date of registration of the
rider. As for Instructor licenses, driving school operators and
instructors will be able to verify the validity status of the licenses with
only the national ID number. Regarding the public transport sector, a passenger can
verify the different certifications of Matatu Saccos, the Inspection status of
the vehicles and both road service and night travel licenses in the public
sector by sending the details in the body of the vehicle. In order to enquire about the motor vehicle inspection
status, you will only be required to capture the PSV registration number and
the same will apply for both road service and night travel licenses. The app provides enforcement officers with the added
advantage of being able to identify PSV badges to ascertain if a driver is
entitled to operate a PSV vehicle. In the same light, the Authority has issued a warning to the
public against travelling in unregistered vehicles. They called on them to
report any cases of drivers and vehicles whose vehicles and licenses are not
duly registered. "The public is cautioned against boarding vehicles
whose licences have expired and those whose details will not populate upon
verification through the App. This indicates that the vehicles are not permitted
to operate," noted the DCI. Apart from the public transport, the app also gives a look
at individual licenses where one can use the national ID to confirm details of
their driving licences. Contrary to the previous app where only the term valid or
expired would be shown, the new app will incorporate the expiry date and the DL
categories. The App also gives a platform for Complaint Management, TIMS
Enquiries and Access to Information. To further support traffic officers in their enforcement
activities, and identify forged documentation, the NTSA notes
that the App can scan the QR code on the E-Sticker provided by the
Authority.  