Tharaka Nithi Senator Prof. Kithure Kindiki has
chimed in on the Monday unveiling of Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua as Azimio
la Umoja One Kenya presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga’s running mate ahead of
the August General Elections. While admitting that the coming together of
Karua and Odinga marks the formation of a formidable alliance, Kindiki is not
convinced that it will affect Deputy President William Ruto’s prospects of carrying
the day in the vote-rich Mt. Kenya region. According to Kindiki, DP Ruto has already
endeared himself to the people of the region and as such Karua, despite being a
Kirinyaga native, will find it difficult to sell the Azimio agenda to people he
says already embraced Kenya Kwanza. The outgoing Tharaka Nithi Senator, who recently
announced that he will not be seeking any elective seat at the August polls after
missing out on the chance to become DP Ruto’s running mate, was speaking on Citizen
TV’s NewsNight show on Tuesday. According to Kindiki, the mountain and Kenya
in general will support leaders who they feel will better their livelihoods and
not just on the basis of ethnic backgrounds. “I doubt she will be able to turn the tide of
UDA and Kenya Kwanza, not even in Kirinyaga. She will not withstand the tide of
Kenya Kwanza. It is too strong,” he said. “For the first time the use of ethnicity as
the organizing principle of our politics has been dismantled, so those who
think that Karua can turn the tide of anywhere because she speaks a certain
language are wasting time.” Kindiki however noted that his opinion of the
Odinga-Karua ticket should not be misinterpreted to mean that he does not
respect the Narc Kenya party boss, noting that she is a brilliant advocate with
whom he has had the pleasure of briefly working with.  “I have crossed paths with Martha Karua. I
have worked with her briefly in the Ministry of Justice. I know her as a person
and as a professional. She is my senior in the legal profession, she is decent
and I have nothing but respect for her,” he said.