Machakos
Governor Alfred Mutua has ditched the Azimio La Umoja coalition and joined the
Deputy President William Ruto-led Kenya Kwanza coalition. Addressing
the press at a Nairobi hotel on Monday, Dr. Mutua said his Maendeleo Chap Chap
(MCC) party had sealed the deal on Sunday night, adding that he has copies of
the agreement, “unlike in Azimio”. The
Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu on Monday morning confirmed that
MCC, alongside Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi’s Pamoja African Alliance party,
had written to her office expressing intention to leave the Azimio Coalition. “I have
received only two (requests of parties wanting to leave the Azimio La Umoja-One
Kenya coalition party); the Maendeleo Chap Chap and the Pamoja African
Alliance,” Ms. Nderitu told Citizen TV on the Day Break show. The MCC
party claims it has been kept in the dark over the Azimio la Umoja affairs and
it has been unable to access the coalition agreement or understand its terms. “As a party
we have been excluded from Azimio line-ups, campaign programs and funding. We
have also not been shown, or even allowed to discuss what our roles would be after
the elections,” said Mutua. “This lack
of clarity plus the sidelining has sent a very clear message to us: akufukuzaye
hakwambii toka.” Mutua has
in recent weeks bemoaned a slew of issues at the Raila Odinga-led coalition,
among them hurdles in getting  a copy of
the Azimio coalition agreement that was deposited with the Office of the Registrar
of Political Parties. “The
registrar of political parties (ORPP) and Azimio coalition party have refused
to give us a copy of the Azimio coalition agreement deposited with the ORPP we
signed to form the coalition,” Mutua tweeted on Friday, May 6. “MCC party
in today’s Governing Council meeting decided to go to court and demand to get
the document so as to see what changes have been made, if any. It's unfortunate
that we're in a coalition relationship whose members have to go to court to get
what's their automatic right." Mutua
raised suspicion that the said lack of transparency could result in some
aspirants being locked out of the August elections at the last minute. He added
that the party's governing council would on Monday, May 9, make a decision
"on the way forward." “What games
are they playing? On Monday, May 9th, 2022, the party will make a decision on
the way forward bearing in mind the plans to zone our party aspirants out and
the deadlines set by law," said Mutua. He added:
"There is a clear and present danger that aspirants in parties in Azimio
will be denied their democratic opportunity to be on the ballot. This we cannot
accept." FORD-Kenya
leader Moses Wetangula was among the leaders who welcomed Mutua into
the Kenya Kwanza camp, saying his entry is an assurance of victory in the
August polls. Tweeted
Wetangula early Monday morning ahead of Mutua’s announcement : “Congratulations
Maendeleo Chap Chap and PAA political parties for joining the Kenya Kwanza
Alliance Coalition. Your entry brings in additional energy and guarantees, even
more, KKA’s assured victory in the August 9th General elections. Hongera”.