Covid-19
cases are spiking in South Africa, and public health experts in the United
States are following the data closely, waiting to see what it might reveal
about how immunity from previous infections behaves over time. South
Africa has been a bellwether before. Scientists there were the first to discover the Omicron variant of the coronavirus
late last year, setting off a global chain reaction. After a pandemic peak in
December, cases in the country declined, but now they're on the rise
again -- along with positivity rates and hospitalizations. It
could spell South Africa's fifth wave. The
spike has been tied to two new sublineages of Omicron, BA.4 and BA.5, which the World Health
Organization added to its monitoring list last month. They're
dominating transmission in the country, accounting for almost 60% of all new
Covid-19 cases by the end of April, according to South Africa's National
Institute of Communicable Diseases. South
African scientists have found that BA.4 and BA.5 can evade antibodies from
previous infection well enough to spark a new wave, but are less likely to do
so in people vaccinated against Covid-19. Almost all South Africans are either
vaccinated or have had a previous infection. Tulio
de Oliveira, director of South Africa's Centre for Epidemic Response and
Innovation, said that the research shows how the virus is changing as global
immunity grows. "It
looks that #COVID19 may be evolving differently and that we may not need a new
variant to cause a new wave of infection. We are seeing this with BA.4 and 5 in
SA and with BA.2.12.1 on the east coast of the USA," de Oliveira said in
a series of Twitter posts. "We
are all tired of this virus, but he may not be tired of us. We need now to take
seriously the decreasing immunity from previous infections," he added,
explaining that vaccination is a much more reliable way to maintain immunity
than infection. These
new Omicron subvariants are spreading around the globe. BA.4 sequences have
been reported in 15 countries and 10 US states, while BA.5 has been detected in
13 countries and five US states, according to the website Outbreak.info, which
is maintained by a coalition of academic research centers and supported by
funding from the National Institutes of Health. BA.4 and BA.5 also have a growth advantage over Omicron
subvariant BA.2, the dominant strain in the US, known as "stealth
Omicron." Deborah
Birx, a former coordinator for the White House's coronavirus task force, said
on Sunday that the US should be prepared for another possible coronavirus surge given
the situation in South Africa and how it has served as a harbinger in the past. "They're
on an upslope again," Birx told CBS's "Face the Nation." "Each
of these surges are about four to six months apart. That tells me that natural
immunity wanes enough in the general population after four to six months that a
significant surge is going to occur again. And this is what we have to be
prepared for in this country," she said, warning of another spike this
summer across the US south. Birx's
warning comes as US cases are again on the rise. Nearly 60% of adults and 75%
of children have antibodies indicating that they've been infected with
Covid-19, according to new data from the US Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  It
is unclear what that means for protection against future infections, health
experts say, and for that reason, the CDC says it is still important to stay up
to date on Covid-19 vaccinations and boosters.