Deputy President William Ruto says he is not
resigning despite the escalating feud within the Executive. DP Ruto claimed he is not incapacitated in
executing his duties and that he discharged his mandate as the President’s
principal assistant in accordance with the Constitution. Ruto, who led the Kenya Kwanza team in a campaign
tour of three counties of Western Kenya on Friday, said those pushing for his
resignation are insincere. Accused of undermining the government he
serves with increased calls that he resigns, the Deputy President pushed back
saying he was staying put. “Mimi nimefata latina
na sheria ya Kenya, hakuna wajibu ninafaa kutekeleza kikatiba ambayo
sijatekeleza ndio muweze kusema ati nijiuzulu,” he said. Dismissive of the push to have him leave
office, DP Ruto termed the crusade as insincere and dishonest. “I have no
outstanding requirement assignment, those telling me that I have absconded duty
should be honest to the people of Kenya,” stated the DP. Ruto took on President Uhuru Kenyatta head-on
accusing the Head of State of stripping him off his duties, reassigning them
elsewhere, then using him as a scapegoat. “Wale ambao
walichukua majukumu yangu na kupelekea watu wengine, sasa saa hızı wanasema ati
sijatekeleza,” he said. The president has accused his principal
assistant of abandoning duty in the ongoing exhange over the spiralling cost of
living. DP Ruto has turned the economic downturn in
the country into campaign fodder for his Kenya Kwanza camp. “The people of Kenya
have wasted five years because of the handshake and reggae,” he said. Kenya Kwanza leaders poked holes into the
government’s assessment of the country’s economic growth. With the National Treasury projecting a 7.6
per cent growth of economy, Kenya Kwanza claimed the government was hoodwinking
the nation. “Uchumi iko hali
mbaya, kamą uchumi imegrow by 7.5 per cent, if that is true wacha tuone benefit
ya hiyo growth,” said Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula. His ANC counterpart
Musalia Mudavadi added: “Je nyinyi mumeona uchumi umebadilika ama Wakenya wako
kwa hali mbaya? hawa wanatuletea fake statistics.”  Kenya Kwanza holds an economic forum in Bungoma
on Saturday before staging rallies in Busia and Vihiga counties.