Laikipia Woman Representative Cate Waruguru
is confident that she will be sitting in the next Parliament after the August
General Election is set and done, this is despite falling short in the United
Democratic Alliance (UDA) party nominations held in April. In the primaries, Waruguru was floored by her
main rival, incumbent Laikipia East MP Amin Deddy, who garnered 12,723 votes against
her measly 5,595 votes. Despite maintaining that the primaries were
not conducted in a transparent manner, Waruguru underlined that there are many
ways to get into Parliament, hinting that she could possibly be nominated as an
MP by the DP William Ruto-led party. “Haikuwa haki ata kidogo kwa sababu zangu
ambazo sitazungumza kwa mapana lakini nimesema udanganyifu na ulaghai uliweza
kufanyika katika party primaries,” she said in an interview on KTN News on
Friday. “Jina langu halitakuwa kwa ballot lakini ntafika
bunge kabla ya wale wanaenda kwa mchujo. Kuna njia tofauti sana za kufika
katika bunge. Mchezo wa Laikipia haujaisha, muhimu ni mimi nikuwe katika bunge
la kumi na tatu.” When asked why she didn’t take the
independent route after losing in the UDA primaries, the Laikipia Woman Representative
underscored that she did not want her personal aspirations to interfere with
her main objective, which is to get DP Ruto into State House. She likewise chimed in on why she wasn’t
handed a direct ticket in the primaries despite her status as one of DP Ruto’s
staunchest supporters, noting that she was not short changed by the party,
which she says was very strategic on how it identified direct nomination
candidates. Following her loss at the primaries, Deddy
will now battle it out with former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri at the ballot
who will be vying on a TSP party ticket. Waruguru does not however intend to drum up
support for either of the aforementioned candidates despite both being members
of the larger Kenya Kwanza alliance. “Hakuna yeyote yule ambaye nitasaidia. Mimi
niko katika presidential campaign natafutia William Ruto kura,” she said.