Searching for a house can be a hectic endeavour
as one physically moves from one place to another, inspecting the state of the unit and
whether it meets budget and taste requirements.   Although there has been a shift from needing to
move physically from one house to another to locate a house with the growth of
social media marketing, there has also been a rise in rogue 'agents' conning
tenants and landlords. Many people who call themselves property agents
have no qualifications to back their titles and simply go showcasing houses, some
of which they have no real access to, while others hike the fees charged to
show and find houses for tenants. Citizen Digital hosted a Twitter Space on Monday
titled: “What are my rights and obligations as a tenant and landlord” with
experts who shared among other topics, what one should look out for before
engaging an agent when searching for property. Expert
panelists Erick Mukaye, the CEO of property agency EMM Consult; and Ken
Ashimosi, the managing partner of MAK & Partners Advocates, advised tenants to
deal with agents registered with the Estate Agents Registration Board of Kenya
(EARB) to avoid being scammed. Ashimosi explained the Estate Agents Act regulates
agents and how they should work. “The Estate Agents Act has given powers to the Estate
Agents Registration Board to manage the professions and agents are supposed to
be registered under the act,” he said. “The board has the obligation to publish the
list of duly registered agents in the Kenya Gazette and other media outlets to
ensure the information reaches the public.” The list shows agents who have been registered as
well as those who have been struck off the registry. Mukaye urged tenants not to take shortcuts,
because cheap is expensive. “If you are serious about getting professional
service, you will not mind paying an agent. The reason people fear going to
proper agents is because they think they are expensive,” he said. Ashimosi said it is illegal for an agent to
purport to practise if they are not registered. He also pointed out that there is a prescribed amount agents
should charge and it should not be arbitrary. It is usually a scale based on percentages
and is contained in the Estate Agents Act. The Act states that for residential lettings of
more than a year, fees of one month’s rent is to be charged, while for lettings
below one year, it is 7.5% of the annual gross rent. For commercial lettings, the rate is 7.5% of the
annual gross rent for a sole agency and 10% of the annual gross rent for a
general agency. Negotiations are allowed, but should not be less
than half the scale. Mukaye pointed out that tenants should not be
scared by agents’ fees. “The provisions on the remuneration fees are such
that lots of times it's the landlord who pays the
agent for the agency work. It is not the tenant who pays,” he said.   “Sometimes you think you're saving by not going
to qualified agents, but you lose money in the process and that has happened a
lot in this country.” The Twitter Space discussion also discussed the
checklist for tenants and landlords before getting into a lease agreement,
obligations of each party and how to end the tenant-landlord relationship
legally. Citizen Digital hosts Twitter Spaces frequently
on property and other topics. Look out for the next space, which will be
announced on our social media pages.