The Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya (PSK) has opposed the
recent appointment of Terry Kiunge Ramadhani as the new substantive CEO of the
Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (KEMSA). According to PSK, Kiunge’s installation as CEO
violates the provisions of the KEMSA act in terms of the academic qualifications
required for the position and integral concerns. The Society claims that the KEMSA board disregarded the law
which requires a CEO to have attained a first degree in pharmacy, medicine,
business management, finance, supply chain management, or any other related
field from a recognized university. Kiunge who was appointed on Thursday holds a bachelor's
degree in Education from Kenyatta University. “The Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya is dismayed at the rate
the Board Of Management of KEMSA has continued to undermine and disregard the
tenets of the constitution and a host of public service statutes on the public
appointment,” read a section of the statement by PSK. “Section 8(2)(a) of the KEMSA Act amended through the Health
Laws Amendment Act 2019 clearly states the minimum qualifications of the CEO of
KEMSA, Ms Terry Kiunge Ramadhani does not meet this requirement. In
addition, the major function of KEMSA is procurement, warehousing, and
distribution of health products and technologies.” PSK further claims that Ms Kiunge, who was a former member
of the KEMSA Board, being awarded the CEO position goes against good corporate
governance. "We find it hard to understand why the KEMSA
board would settle on a candidate who has no experience in health commodities
supply chain management yet there were other more qualified and experienced
candidates who applied for the position," PSK noted. “The appointed CEO was a board member on the same KEMSA
board that appointed her. Recusal of the board and hiring of an external
company for this process would have been the bare minimum.” The body now wants the Authority to quash the
installation of Kiunge within two days citing incompetence and vested interests
in the board, failure to which they will take legal action. "If this appointment of an unqualified and
unsuitable person to be the substantive CEO of KEMSA is not rescinded within
the next 48 hours. We are ready to stand with the law, towards seeking further
legal sanctions against the Board, if the said Board does not reverse this
illegality," PSK remarked.  Prior to her new role, Kiunge served at Aga Khan
University as the HR and Global Change Director.