Interior Cabinet Secretary (CS) Fred Matiang'i has warned
that money laundering criminal entities may buy their way into elected
offices in the upcoming elections resulting in 40 per cent of officeholders being
money launderers. According to Matiang’i, who was speaking at the 2022
National Conference on Criminal Justice Reforms in Naivasha on Tuesday,
criminals are capitalizing on sloppy banking regulations to influence the
electoral process. This, Matiang’i added, threatens the transparency and
credibility of the August polls, noting that Kenya needs to adapt a stringent
legal framework to steadily mitigate such threats. “We could end up laundering criminals of unprecedented
standards into our elective offices. We might have over 40% of elected office
holders becoming our leaders if we allow all the ‘wash wash’ gangs and other
criminals to bribe their way in the coming elections,” said the CS. The CS added that prosecution of persons found guilty of
disrupting the electoral process on social media platforms also threatens the
election exercise as most suspects often get round this by posting bail. “We have the challenge of multiple bonds issued by our
courts. Some of the people who have been arrested are enjoying their eighth,
ninth or tenth bond. This of course does little to deter others from engaging
an army of bloggers to character assassinate others,” noted Matiang'i. Other challenges that the CS identified as risks to a
credible poll from a security perspective are a deliberate disregard for laws
and regulations, especially on political gatherings, the proliferation of hate
speech and incitement to ethnic conflicts and balkanization. Matiang'i however underscored that approximately 10,000
police officers have been drawn from different law enforcement agencies to
oversee the election, citing that they are up to the task and that they will
work hand in hand with IEBC to ensure that the polls are conducted without any
hitches.  Chief Justice Martha Koome, the Director of Public
Prosecutions Noordin Haji, the Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai,
the Commissioner-General of Prisons Brig (Rtd) John Warioba, National Cohesion
and Integration Commission (NCIC) chair Rev Samuel Kobia and DCI boss George
Kinoti were all in attendance.