Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) party leader Alfred
Mutua has asked Kenyans to shun what he terms as propaganda by United
Democratic Alliance (UDA) Chairman Johnson Muthama about his development record
as Machakos Governor. This is after the former Machakos Senator
vowed that he will not share a platform with Mutua during the Kenya Kwanza campaigns
in Ukambani due to alleged integrity concerns. Hours after Muthama, in a TV interview
castigated Governor Mutua for allegedly making empty promises to the people of
Machakos County and taking credit for projects he is yet to undertake and
implement, the MCC party boss took journalists on an inspection of projects he
claims to have delivered to the electorate during his tenure at the helm of the
county. Top of Muthama's accusations towards Governor
Mutua included insufficient ambulances, security motor vehicles, tractors,
water supply and health services. “He displayed 70
ambulances that were used by Charity Ngilu while she was in charge of Health...now
only 5 are functional...sameas security cars...no single water shower and deplorable
health services,” said Muthama. Governor Mutua, in
response, said: “Ignore rumors peddled by politicians that I have done nothing
during my 2 terms as governor. We have improved all departments through
adequate service delivery to the people of Machakos County.” Muthama's and Mutua's row was evident during
the maiden Kenya Kwanza and Maendeleo Chap Chap joint rally in Tala, Machakos County,
with the UDA Chairman failing to host his party leader DP William Ruto at the
very town where he was born and raised. “I have no issue
with Maendeleo Chap Chap, I was aware and involved in the agreement but I will
not share a platform or ideals with Mutua,” said Muthama. Mutua said: “We
will continue serving the people of Machakos and the wider Ukambani region…we
want this region to grow under the new political dispensation.” The rift could be a set back for Kenya Kwanza
seeking to consolidate the Ukambani vote, with 88 days to go to the August 9th
General elections.