The High Court in Mombasa has temporarily barred the
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) from clearing former
Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to contest for the Mombasa gubernatorial seat in
the August polls. Justice John Mativo issued the restraining orders on
Thursday pending the hearing and determination of a petition filed by three
civil society organisations;  Haki Yetu, Kituo Cha Sheria and Transparency
International, who want Sonko disqualified from the polls. “I order that the IEBC and is hereby restrained from
processing Sonko’s nomination papers to contest and vie for the office of the
Governor of Mombasa County pending hearing and determination of this petition,”
Justice Mativo said. In the applications, the petitioners want Sonko
disqualified on grounds that he was ousted from office over a violation of the
constitution and failing to promote public confidence by upholding integrity
while in office. “Having been found unsuitable to hold the office of the
Governor of Nairobi City County, Mr Sonko is equally unsuitable to hold any
other state office,” the petition by Kituo Cha Sheria lawyer Grace Okumu
stated. The applicants are also seeking conservatory orders
against the Wiper party over alleged violation of the constitution, arguing
that despite being disqualified by Article 75 (3) of the Constitution from
holding state office, Sonko expressed his intention to contest the Mombasa
governorship and was nominated by the party. “IEBC is likely to approve and clear Mr Sonko to run
for the position of Governor Mombasa since he has already been nominated by the
Wiper party and his name submitted to IEBC in the further perpetuation of
constitutional violations and a real threat to petitioners’ constitutional
rights,” the petition added. This follows two other previous petitions in Mombasa by
Ndoro Kaguya and George Odhiambo and another in Eldoret, which also sought to
disqualify the controversial ex-governor from contesting the seat. Sonko through his lawyers had later applied to have
the matter transferred to Mombasa and consolidated with the other
petitions already before the Mombasa court. Ms Munira Ali, a programmes officer at Haki Yetu, states
that Mr Sonko and Wiper will have converted Mombasa County into a dumping
ground for rejected leaders if cleared by the commission.  