Mathira Member of Parliament Rigathi Gachagua
has warned the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) against playing
politics in the death of nominated MP David Sankok’s son. Gachagua faulted the DCI detectives for their
continuous investigations, terming it harassment to the bereaved family, adding
that it should be given ample time to mourn and bury their loved one. The MP, who is allied to the Deputy President
William Ruto-led UDA, which Sankok is also a member of, cautioned the DCI
against victimising the family due to its political alignment. “We want to urge the agencies of government
not to be drawn in to politicising everything and being seen to punish and
intimidate those who are not of the same political persuasion,” Gachagua said
while at Sankok’s home on Saturday. “It will be very sad for anyone to take
advantage of this unfortunate incident to create insinuations and perceptions,
with a view of trying to cast  people in a bad light and create them more
pain when they are already suffering.” He added: “We ask our officers to be very
professional and do their work very professionally and not to allow any other
extraneous issues to be pulled into the investigation.” While citing incidences where the DCI sleuths
have been making visits to Sankok’s home and calling members to record
statements, Sankok said that the move was overwhelming to the family. Memusi Sankok, a 15-year-old Kericho High
School student, allegedly shot himself dead on Monday under unclear
circumstances. The lawmaker now wants the probing personnel
to allow adequate time for the family to bury their kin. “We want to ask the agencies of government to
be empathetic with this family to know that they are having a very hard time,”
Gachagua said. “Losing a son of that young age is very
traumatic, especially in such tragic circumstances. The family has done
everything needed…postmortem has also been done and investigations concluded
and the cause of death established.”  “Much as we accept the investigations should
continue, we ask the DCI to give them time to bury their child. Subjecting
the family to recording so many statements at this difficult time is
inhumane," he said.