The immediate family of NARC-Kenya leader Martha Karua has
spoken out about her nomination as the Azimio La Umoja presidential
running mate ahead of the August polls. Led by Karua’s mother, Josephine Wanjiru, the
family exuded confidence that the long-time lawyer and human rights defender
has what it takes to steer the
country alongside Raila Odinga if they clinch the presidency in the General
Election. “She has been a hardworking, focused and
ambitious child growing up, what is seen as her being tough is essentially
because she stands for what she believes in and does not follow convention and
stands for what she believes is right,” said Wanjiru. The matriarch said she was anticipating her
daughter’s leadership, should she get into the second most powerful office in
the country, which she described as different and result-oriented. “I am hopeful for her governance because I
have known her as someone who cannot stand corruption and whose style of
politics is not about a game of insults but getting the work done. If God helps
them win this, it will be a win for the entire country,” she said. Ms. Karua’s father, Jackson, on the other
hand, expressed gratitude for the appointment, further hoping she and Odinga
will transform the country if they win the bid. “I am very excited because I did not imagine
her getting it. Her as
a running mate did not cross my mind. I just thank God for making this happen
for my daughter,” he said, adding: “I just pray that both lead this country
into a better place than they found it.” On his part, Karua’s younger brother, Nyage,
hailed her as a leader of integrity. “My sister has charted her own way into the
political level but we never thought it would reach that level but God has been
gracious she has become what she is today,” Nyage said, fighting emotions. “Being a person of integrity and one who
believes in what she wants, she’s going to change the course of this
country. I don’t even have words. I know she will chart the course of this
country to be a great country,” he added. Speaking on Monday after being announced as
Odinga’s running mate, Karua termed the appointment as a historic moment for
women in Kenya. “This nomination is truly a collective honour
that cannot be left for me alone to savour, a personal as well as national
journey,” said the NARC-Kenya party leader. “This is a moment for the women of Kenya, a
moment that my late grandmother, one of the most instrumental women in my life,
would have been proud of, but she would not have been surprised because
generations of women have fought for space in the decision-making table.” While listing notable female figures who she
said paved the way for women to fight for a place in leadership, Karua said her
nomination was a chance for more women to be included in positions of power
across the country. “From Biblical Esther to Field Marshall
Muthoni wa Kirima, Mekalitili wa Menza, Moraa Ngiti, Priscilla Abwao, Grace
Onyango, Chelagat Mutai and our very Nobel Laureate Prof. Wangari Mathaai, just
to name a few, women have been instrumental in pursuing change and this is our
moment as women and men of kenya to usher more of us into the national and
county level,” said Karua. Karua who is a renowned Kenyan human rights
defender and reform champion with a deep commitment to social justice at the
same time assured that their government shall be keen to fight for social
justice. “I recommit myself to fully support Hon. Raila
Odinga in his eternal pursuit of social justice and justice for all…we have
history to judge us,” said Karua. Should Odinga and Karua clinch the presidency on August 9,
she will be the country’s first female deputy president.