Fresh
details have emerged into the life of Samuel Mugoh Muvota, the man who was shot
dead in broad daylight on Mirema Drive in Nairobi’s Roysambu neighbourhood on
Monday afternoon. Though
it remains unclear why the man was murdered in cold blood, new findings by the
Directorate of Criminal Investigation’s (DCI) Corporate Communications and
Public Affairs Unit have shed light into Muvota’s alleged line of work, which
could possibly have led him to his early grave. According
to DCI, Muvota had been arrested on more than 30 occasions in the past 11 years
on fraud-related charges. By
the time of his death, the DCI stated, Muvota was purportedly the brains behind
an ATM and SIM swapping syndicate operating within Nairobi and its environs,
which was minting millions from unsuspecting Kenyans. Muvota
is said to have swindled oblivious Kenyans by scouting and recruiting over 50
women to spike the drinks of unsuspecting revellers frequenting various
high-end entertainment joints across the city. After
drugging the victims with a drug known only as ‘Tamuu’, the ladies would steal
all their belongings, including ATM cards, which would later be used by Muvota
to illegally obtain money from their mobile money and bank accounts. So
lucrative was the syndicate that Muvota reportedly obtained several
multi-million shilling properties across Nairobi and a fleet of high-end
vehicles since 2011 when he ventured into the business. Muvota,
the DCI says, also married seven women during the period; all of them claimed
not to have been aware of his activities, upon questioning by detectives. “Muvota
began his trade in 2011 by hanging around city ATM’s and offering to assist
customers who had difficulties withdrawing money from their accounts. Working
with crooked banking officials who would jam the teller machines once a client
inserted his ATM card, Muvota would approach the client offering to assist,”
the DCI said in a statement. “He
would insert the clients’ card then pretend to be facing away and ask the
client to key in his password and first confirm the balance before withdrawing
the amount they wished. However, since the machines eject the ATM card first,
he would get hold of the card as the unsuspecting client waited for the cash.” Muvota
would then expertly swap the ATM cards for fake ones before handing them back
to his targets He would then casually move around different ATM points across
the city to empty the cash held in the said accounts. Detectives
say he particularly had a preference for Co-operative bank ATMs where he would
patiently lay in wait for his next score. “He
would strike past 5 in the evening when he was sure that account holders would
not walk back to their banks to inquire what was happening to their accounts,
since messages of withdrawals they had not made would keep streaming into their
phones,” said the DCI. “The
hotlines operated by banks wouldn’t be of any help to the helpless clients, as
alerts of unsanctioned transactions kept coming all night. By the time the
victims visited their banks to make inquiries into the fraudulent transactions,
they would be met with apologies from equally hapless tellers.” In
2018, Muvote reportedly caused the death of a woman in Kayole after he emptied
her life savings from her account via Pesalink using his usual trick. Muvote
is said to have wired Ksh.700,000 from the lady’s account to one of his own,
leaving only Ksh.700 behind. After realizing that she had been duped, the woman
purportedly collapsed and died. The
DCI says that Muvote was well-known by cyber security specialists following the
number of times he was linked to breaches in victims’ accounts. He
allegedly also had links to a number of police officers, who occasionally
tipped him off whenever he was being pursued by law enforcement agencies so
that he could evade arrest. “After
11 years in the highly dangerous trade that has in recent days targeted patrons
looking for entertainment in high-end establishments including top public
servants, businessmen, politicians and men of the cloth, Muvota seemed to have
made more enemies than friends. Detectives suspect that one of the women he had
employed or an accomplice must have given him in to criminals after a deal gone
sour,” said DCI. Muvote
was shot several times by an unknown gunman on Monday just moments after
dropping off a woman around Mirema Springs. Items
recovered from the murdered man include money in different currencies, seven
different national identity cards, six wallets, phones and laptops believed to
have been stolen. The
bullet-riddled car was towed to the Kasarani Police Station. Detectives
revealed that the vehicle is registered to a different person who is helping
with investigations.