After naming him as his running mate in the August presidential election, Kenya
Kwanza alliance flag-bearer William Ruto has announced his first assignment for
MP Rigathi Gachagua. Dr. Ruto, in an address at his official
residence in Karen, Nairobi on Sunday, said the Mathira legislator’s role will
now be to lead the economic team of the Kenya Kwanza coalition campaign machine towards their bottom-up
economic agenda. “Your first assignment that we have agreed
with the leaders here is that you and my good friend Moses Kuria, who is an
economist par excellence, will now offer the political leadership to our
economic team to deliver on the robust agenda that we have assigned to them,”
said Ruto. “You have walked with me all-through, you know
what we need to do about access to credit for ordinary citizens, about
universal health coverage.” Alongside Kuria, Gachagua is expected to lead
the pack in tabling all the counties’ economic charters in preparation for the
presidency come August 9. “We expect you and the economic team to give
us context of how in 45 days we will have the economic charters of all the
counties,” Dr. Ruto said. “The team here expects you to hit the ground
running so that Kenya Kwanza can be ready to govern from Day 1.” The Mathira MP termed Sunday “one of the
greatest days of my life” after his appointment out of the pool of over five
candidates. “It is a responsibility I take pride in
and one that humbles me that you trusted me, together with our colleagues, to
deliver Kenyans from economic oppression,” said Gachagua. While hailing DP Ruto as an inspirational
figure in politics, the legislator vowed to collaborate with him to transform
the country. “Under your leadership I believe we can take
this country to the next level. Your story has been an inspiration to hustlers
and all of us all over Kenya and I am no exception,” he stated. “I believe we have what it takes to
achieve the dreams of the hustler nation and it will be a great honor for me to
play my part, and that I will.” MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Alice Wahome
(Kandara), National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Kirinyaga Governor Anne
Waiguru, Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki were among the candidates
considered for the position. Meanwhile, Dr. Ruto has promised to solve the
gender imbalance in the nation’s leadership within a year of his administration
with Gachagua. “We will ensure that 10 of the cabinet ministers in our
government will be women as part of our plan towards inclusive governance,” he
added.