At
least three people were killed and four injured in a suspected terror attack in the central Israeli city of
Elad on Thursday, according to Israel's emergency response services. Police
said the incident, which took place on Israeli Independence Day, involved two
suspected attackers. One fired a rifle while the other attacked people with an
axe or a knife, police said. The
suspects have still not been apprehended, according to Israeli police, who
urged the public to stay away from the scene. "At
this point, security crossings have been deployed on various roads, together
with a helicopter, searching for a vehicle that was seen fleeing the scene,"
a police spokesperson said. Pictures
from the scene showed multiple emergency vehicles including ambulances and
motorcycles. Two
of the wounded have arrived at Beilinson hospital, the hospital said. One is in
critical condition and one in serious condition, it said. "This
is a very difficult event. When we arrived at the place we noticed that it was
a complex scene," Alon Rizkan, a paramedic from Israel's emergency
response service Magen David Adom (MDA), said in a statement. All
three of the dead were men in their 40s, Rizkan said. Two
men, aged 60 and 35, are seriously injured, Rizkan said. A 40-year-old man was
moderately injured and a 23-year-old man was lightly injured fighting the
attackers, he added. The
attack marks the latest in a series of violent incidents that have put Israel
and the Palestinian territories on edge in recent weeks. Dozens
have died in attacks in Israel and the West Bank since March 22, according to a
CNN count. In
one incident, two people were killed and more than a dozen others were wounded
in a shooting at a bar in a busy area of Tel Aviv. And
over the course of just one week in March, 11 people were killed in three attacks in Israeli towns and cities. In
a statement, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett condemned Thursday's attack, and
offered his condolences to the families affected. "Our
enemies have embarked on a murderous campaign against Jews wherever they are.
Their goal is to break our spirit; but they will fail. We will get our hands on
the terrorists and their supportive environment, and ensure they pay the
price," Bennett said in the statement. Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas also condemned Thursday's violence, his
office said in a statement. "The
killing of Palestinian and Israeli civilians only leads to a further
deterioration of the situation at a time when we all strive to achieve
stability and prevent escalation," Abbas said in the statement. Abbas
warned against Jewish settlers using the incident as an excuse "to carry
out attacks and reactions against our Palestinian people." He
added that the "lasting, comprehensive and just peace is the shortest and
best way to provide security and stability for the Palestinian and Israeli
peoples and the peoples of the region." Late
Thursday, Palestinian militant groups in Gaza, Hamas and Islamic Jihad, praised
the suspected terror attack, without explicitly taking credit for it. Hamas
spokesman Fawzi Barhoum linked the attack to clashes at Jerusalem's al Aqsa
mosque compound. "This
is a brave and heroic act that comes as a natural response to the violations of
the occupation against al Aqsa Mosque," he told CNN, referring to the
presence of Israeli security in the compound. The
attack "sends a message to the occupation that all its crimes and
violations will only return to it," he said, referring to Israel.
"Our natural right is for our people to respond to the crimes of the
occupation, to deter it, and to defend our rights. Today, the occupation is
paying the bill for its violations." Islamic
Jihad political bureau member Muhammad Hamid Abu Al-Hassan congratulated the
attackers. "The
desecration of the occupation army and settler gangs of al Aqsa Mosque crossed
all red lines, and our people will continue to respond to this
aggression," he said, a nod to clashes that occurred at the compound on
Thursday. Only
Muslims are allowed to visit the holy site, called the Temple Mount by Jews and
Haram al-Sharif or Noble Sanctuary by Muslims, during the last 10 days of
Ramadan each year. Groups of Israeli Jews began visiting again on Thursday. US
State Department spokesperson Ned Price said that Thursday's suspected terror
attack appears to be "the latest in a what has been a string of despicable
terrorist attacks that have rocked Israel in recent weeks." "We
saw them in advance of this holy period -- the confluence of Easter, of
Passover, of Ramadan. We saw them in advance of the Negev Summit. And if this
is what it appears to be, it is something that we would condemn in strongest
terms," Price said.  "Our
commitment to our Israeli partners, to Israel's security, that is ironclad, and
we'll provide any and all assistance that may be required in this case,"
he added.