Those are the words Azimio La Umoja coalition presidential
flag bearer Raila Odinga used in describing NARC-Kenya Party leader Martha
Karua while unveiling her as his running mate in the forthcoming August General
Election. Karua was picked from a list of 11 individuals who were
interviewed by a selection panel constituted to advise and help the Azimio
coalition flag bearer select a running mate. In a much-anticipated address at KICC, Nairobi, Odinga bore
it all out to the country on why he picked Karua as his running mate describing
her as “a fighter, safe pair of hands and a woman with a beautiful soul.” The ODM party leader recounted instances when Karua
fearlessly supported him during the fight for constitutional change in the
country. “The woman we offer as proposed DP is known to have
incredible credentials in the fight for our second liberation. In 1990, for
instance, I was arrested and placed in detention without trial. At that time
very few lawyers were prepared to defend me. But this woman, then a young
lawyer, led a team of 27 lawyers to defend my legal detention,” said Odinga. He added: “When I moved a motion in Parliament to set up a
select committee on Constitution reforms and was deserted by my colleagues in
the opposition, only she and the late Joyce Moseti Anyona stood by me… This
woman is a fighter and not a quitter.” The former prime minister described Karua as a safe pair of
hands for the country owing to her push during the struggle for the country’s
second liberation as well as her service to the country in many capacities. Odinga was categorical that Karua would indeed be remarkable
deputy president. “This woman has a beautiful soul as exhibited by her love
and passion for her children and grandchildren… This woman will be a great
co-creator and will make a remarkable first (woman) deputy president of the
republic of Kenya,” he said. In nominating Karua as his deputy, Odinga said she would also be the Cabinet Secretary for Justice and Constitutional Affairs
should they form the next government. “As a co-worker I want her to finalise the work of making
our Constitution. I want this done because when the late Kibaki and I admitted
that our constitution was a work in progress… Because I am a man of my words, I
will task her with the assignment of completing what we started and I am
persuaded that she has the right pair of hands to accomplish this task,” said
Odinga. And to much applause from a huge crowd gathered at KICC,
Odinga finally unveiled his running mate: “My dear Kenyans... Cometh the hour, cometh the lady. I have
the great honour to announce that I
have picked as my running mate and Minister for Justice and Constitutional affairs
Martha Wangari Karua.” In her acceptance speech, Karua committed to fully
supporting Odinga as she assured of her readiness and capacity to be the
country’s second-in-command. Karua termed the appointment as a historic moment for women
in Kenya. “This nomination is truly a collective honour that cannot be
left for me alone to savour, a personal as well as national journey,” said the
NARC-Kenya party leader.  “Baba has allocated me duties in advance and I want to
confirm that I am ready, able and willing for those duties, I will not let you
down. I will be steadfast, diligent in pursuit of our shared dreams and
pursuits,” she said. At the age
of 24, Karua was appointed as a Magistrate to adjudicate on matters of
men. A few years
later, she became the youngest woman to be elected MP in Central Kenya and went
on to serve for 20 years.  Martha Karua also served as a Cabinet minister for six years in different
portfolios.