Canadian nationals in Kenya have been urged to
exercise caution when visiting some parts of the country due to threats of terrorism
and crime. In
a travel advisory issued on Monday, the Canadian High Commission in Kenya
advised its citizens to completely avoid travel to areas bordering Somalia,
South Sudan and Ethiopia. Mandera,
Wajir, Garissa and Lamu counties have been designated as no-go zones by the commission
following incidences of terrorism and kidnappings targeting foreigners in the
area. Turkana
and Marsabit counties have been flagged for banditry and incidences of
cross-border violence. According
to the Canadian High Commission, Beachfront accommodations on the coastal area
are vulnerable to criminal activity, such as armed robbery, break-ins and
carjacking. "Avoid
all travel within 50km of the coast of Tana River County and within 50km of the
coast of Kilifi County (from north of the city of Malindi to the Tana River
County limits) due to a risk of kidnapping and attacks," the advisory read
in part. "There
is a threat of terrorism. Credible information indicates that Westerners may be
targeted by extremists in Nairobi, Naivasha, Nanyuki, Meru, Narok and the
coastal areas of Kenya." The
Commission added that the alleged terror attacks could target government
buildings, places of worship, transportation hubs such as airports, public
areas such as tourist attractions, and restaurants and other sites frequented
by foreigners. Canadians
residing in Nairobi have likewise been counselled to limit their movements in
Eastleigh, Kibera and Pangani due to high crime rates. "There
is a high crime rate in most regions of Kenya, particularly in major cities
such as Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. In Nairobi, exercise extreme caution in informal
settlement communities such as Kasarani, Kibera and Mathare, due to the high
level of crime and limited capacity of police to respond to incidents,"
read the advisory. Canadians
have similarly been counselled to be on the look out for scams, piracy and
incidents of online fraud, taking part in demonstrations and travelling with
large amounts of cash and drawing unwanted attention to themselves. The
Commission correspondingly urged Canadian citizens to adhere to regulations
governing a 30-day dusk to dawn curfew instituted in Marsabit County by the
government on May 2, 2022. "The
curfew is in effect in Marsabit County until June 1, 2022. Kenyan security
forces are engaged in security operations in the area. Follow curfew
orders," said the statement.