Tharaka
Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki has resolved to take a break from elective politics
after missing out on a nomination as Kenya Kwanza coalition presidential running
mate for the upcoming August elections. Announcing
the decision on Monday, Kindiki said after joining the Deputy President William
Ruto-led UDA Party he had chosen to disengage himself from county politics to
focus on national politics, but his ambition did not materialize after the
party settled on Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua to be the running mate. He termed
this as a brief interruption of his career but maintained that he would still
support the UDA Party and the Kenya Kwanza coalition in the run-up to the
August elections. “My attempt
at being nominated to ascend to a national elective leadership position having
failed yesterday, I have taken a decision to take a break from elective
politics starting 10th of August 2022,” said Kindiki. “I will use
the break to reorganize myself as I continue to fully support my party UDA and
Kenya Kwanza administration to deliver to Kenyans upon assuming office.” He said for
the remainder of the campaign period he will be available to offer his services “more robustly in the field and boardroom to ensure
no votes that we (Kenya Kwanza)
can mobilise remain out there.” “After
prayerful soul-searching and reflection, I have decided to remain a loyal and faithful member our party
UDA and the Kenya Kwanza alliance.
I will continue to play my role in the campaign and subordinate myself to the
leadership of our party including my former competitor who is now the deputy
president-designate for our coalition and country,” said Kindiki. At the same
time, the former deputy speaker announced that he would not be seeking any
appointive position, but would instead remain focused on serving the country on
a national elective seat.  MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Alice Wahome (Kandara), National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, and Senator Kithure Kindiki were among the candidates considered for the position of running mate in the Kenya Kwanza coalition. The coalition however settled on Rigathi Gachagua.