The Supremacy battles between the Director
of Public Prosecutions and the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) has
now moved to court with the DCI now demanding for probing and prosecution of
Noordin Haji for alleged perjury and fraud during consultative meetings to formulate
guidelines on terrorism.   The DPP is also accused of equally forging
the said officers' residence entries in the hotel where the workshop was taking
place. Kinoti also alleges that the consultant
expert involved in the drafting of the guidelines was not qualified and that he
was selected due to his relation with Haji. 

The DCI who wants the guidelines set aside has raised a number of issues in the
guidelines among them the requirement for declassification of their operation
and mode of investigations as provided in the guidelines which he says is
tantamount to exposing police officers to operational risks with far reaching
effect on the safety of the nation and allegedly assisting the terrorist
suspect to escape the drag net, cover up evidence and aid in eliminating
officers involved in the operation. Kinoti says the taskforce as constituted
was comprised of a majority of non-investigative agencies who lacked the
expertise or technical knowledge in investigation of terrorism and financing of
terrorism. The DCI says as a lead agency they were
underrepresented through out the formulation of the guidelines with only two
of their officers in attendance as opposed to 12 participants from the office
of the Director of Public Prosecutions. The move he says was a pre-conceived plan
of formulating and validating the guidelines in exclusion of critical persons
in the criminal justice system. They say the DPP is hell-bent to seize the
mandate of other agencies to the detriment of the best interest of the country. On his part, the DPP in a terse statement
over the standoff between the two offices on suspect processing told DCI to
stop absconding his investigative duties and instead appeal against the high
court ruling directing his office to draft charge sheets. Haji said that the Judgement of the High
court is a reinforcement of previous Judgements delivered by Superior Courts on
the issue of the exercise of prosecutorial powers.  The DPP who has already rolled out a new
charge sheet has asked aggrieved parties to seek legal redress and assured all
that he will collaborate with the office of the Inspector General of Police
before undertaking any measures which might have far-reaching implications on
the administration of Justice.