 Their happily ever after turned loud and messy after the 52-year-old moved to court, seeking a refund of the bride price he paid after his marriage broke down. He claimed that he had been married to his ex-wife for about a year and a half when she began abandoning their marital home on several occasions. “Everything was rosy but when I came back I realised all was not well. My ex-wife would desert our home on several occasions for days. I sent emissaries to my in-laws but that did not work and that’s why I decided to go to court,” he said. “Our marriage was dissolved on October 12, 2021, by a Kitale Court." It was a big win two weeks ago when he was granted his wish by a mediation court in Kitale, which saw him receive three cows, a she-goat and Ksh.20, 000 as a refund from his in-laws. “I was devoted to receiving the bride price in its entirety because I did not have any children with her, as expected in the Bukusu customary. I was demanding all that I had worked hard for and the court saw it fit to grant me my wish,” he said. Murunga, now a free man, planned to return to the United States on May 26 but was forced to stay the night at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) after it was discovered that a tour agency had sold him a fake ticket. “I was expecting to be in the USA by today. I did not realize I was using a fake ticket until I got to the airport. I went through all the process and then when I got to the check-in counter, I was informed my ticket was fake," he recalls. Mr Murunga told Citizen Digital that he paid Ksh.76, 000 for a return ticket to America on the Qatar airline. He had issues with the electronically generated ticket. Little did he know the ticket was fake. The air ticket indicated that Mr. Murunga was to board a Qatar Airways flight QR 1336 on May 26 at 18.10 and arrive at Doha at around 23.25. He was then to board another flight -Qatar Airways QR 709- at 01.30am and arrive in Dallas at around 09.10am. Mr. Murunga had to contend with the chilly night cold after it dawned on him that he had been conned and had no chance of boarding a plane to the United States at the airport, shocked and in a quagmire. “I am still in shock, I almost passed out at the airport. I spent the night there it was a terrible scene. It was raining and I could not get anything to eat. Although I have depleted my funds, I am hoping to get the money to buy another ticket even if it’s from well-wishers,’’ he said.