President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday launched
an accelerated national tree growing campaign with an assurance of Kenya’s
commitment to combating the challenges arising from climate change. Speaking during the launch at a presidential
roundtable meeting on the accelerated national tree growing campaign at State
House Nairobi, President Kenyatta said that the bold actions taken by the
Government towards increasing Kenya’s forest cover are bearing fruits. “We have increased our quality of seeds for
seedlings production from 10 tonnes to 160 metric tonnes for the production of
over 2 billion seedlings annually. “I am happy to note that in today’s meeting
we are already embarking on the ambitious but fulfilling journey of increasing
Kenya’s forest cover to at least 30 percent by 2050,” President Kenyatta said. At the same time, the Head of State said
Kenya has established a global tree-growing fund with the Multi-Partner Trust
Fund. He said the fund seeks to secure USD 45
million that will deliver over 1.2 billion high-quality seedlings, enact a
robust innovative forestry finance scheme, strengthen forestry governance and
roll out a robust tree growing campaign that will enable the country meet its
climate change action commitments. He appreciated the support of development
partners such as the Government of Japan which has already provided its support
of USD 2.6 million through UNDP. While formally unveiling the United Nations
Sustainable Tree Growing Fund, he appealed to global and local partners to
support Kenya’s efforts to undertake climate action that will ultimately save
the globe from the perils of changing climate. “This will follow up on the great commitments
issued last year at the climate change Glasgow meeting where countries gave
firm commitments to the forestry agenda. We are ready for the conservation
business and we mean business,” President Kenyatta said. Saying Kenya has made tremendous progress
towards reducing land degradation and desertification, President Kenyatta
emphasized that the country will continue to cement its leadership on the
renewable energy agenda. “Using our domestic initiatives and
resources, we have a green and clean electricity grid with over 94 percent of
our electricity coming from the renewable sources of hydroelectric, geothermal,
solar and wind energy,” the President said. He expressed satisfaction that Kenya is
ranked 5th in geothermal energy production while its production wind and solar
energy is constantly expanding, adding that the country is on course towards
realizing a 100 percent clean grid by the year 2030. He appreciated the support that has been
provided to KEFRI to not only expand its seed production, processing and
distribution infrastructure but also to develop innovative technologies to
accelerate restoration of the degraded landscapes through aerial seeding using
air planes, drones, and seed balls. The President also noted that the Government
has demonstrated leadership by contributing to the global efforts that
bequeathed to the world the Paris Agreement on Climate Change of 2015. “To lead by example, Kenya has made ambitious
commitments on greenhouse gas emissions, halting and reversing deforestation,
biodiversity conservation, and land restoration,” President Kenyatta said. During the occasion, President Kenyatta
unveiled the National Forest and Tree Cover report, the Bamboo Policy as well
as the Kenya Water Towers Status report among other Key documents on
environmental conservation. In his remarks, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko
disclosed that currently the country’s forest cover is 8.8 percent while the
tree cover stands at 12.13 percent and that the country has actually surpassed
the target. “This would not have happened without Your
Excellency’s (President Kenyatta) remarkable unwavering support and leadership.
It is the leadership that has given us energy, the strength and the passion and
we are grateful,” CS Tobiko said. On his part, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani said
coordinated partnerships are essential to mobilize sustainable finance from all
sectors. In a speech read by Principal Secretary
Julius Muia, CS Yatani appreciated the UN for extending a grant amounting to
USD 45 million (Kshs 5.2 billion) to support the UN joint programme for tree
growing project in Kenya. The roundtable meeting was also attended by
members of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), members of the diplomatic
corps and development partners. KEPSA CEO Carole Kariuki announced a Kshs 6
billion commitment from the private sector in support of the national tree
growing campaign. Other speakers included UN Country Resident
Coordinator Stephen Jackson, UNDP’s Resident Representative Walid Badawi and
Japanese Ambassador to Kenya Ken Okaniwa.  Later, President Kenyatta flagged off the
national tree seedlings distribution programme that targets a total of 4,800
schools countrywide, TVET institutions, colleges and universities, the National
Prisons Service, regional development authorities and county government.