Over 31,000
vehicles have used the Nairobi Expressway every day since it was opened up to
the public on May 14, 2022, albeit on a trial basis. This is according
to Transport Cabinet Secretary (CS) James Macharia who on Tuesday noted that the Expressway had significantly
reduced traffic snarl-ups on the busy Mombasa Road following its commissioning. The Expressway’s
trial run, President Uhuru Kenyatta said in early May, would enable his
administration to identify sections of the road that needed to be polished up
before its official launch. “The road has been
on a pilot phase over the last two weeks and so far we can say that it has been
a success by the number of vehicles that we see there, at times over 31,000 on
a daily basis,” said the CS in a statement. Macharia likewise
urged motorists planning to use the Expressway to enrol for the manual tolling
card (MTC) or the electronic tolling card (ETC) to reduce the little traffic
that was recorded during the period. Longer time to process payments on the road
has been attributed to the
said traffic. “What I would urge
Kenyans is to get either the ETC or the MTC to reduce traffic on the
expressway,” said CS Macharia. “Further the CS
urged Kenyans to get either the manual tolling card or the electronic tolling
card as opposed to using cash in order to reduce traffic along the expressway
way.” Registering for an
MTC will cost you Ksh.1300, Ksh.300 for service charge, and Ksh.1000 to be
loaded onto the card. For an ETC one will
be required to produce a national ID and the Logbook of the vehicle being
registered at a cost of Ksh.3000, Ksh.1000 or service charge and Ksh.2000 to be
loaded onto the card. The road has 11
tolling stations, 54 toll plazas, 54 cameras along the whole 27-kilometre road
with 126 cameras inside the toll plazas. The entire road is monitored with
recordings being done at 30 minutes intervals.  Further, there’s a smart
monitoring system that detects congestions, spillage, vehicle reversals,
pedestrian crossing and emergencies  