Details of the Kenya Kwanza coalition agreement
read like a return on investment, reap-what-you-sow power sharing deal. The elaborate primary document, drawn by Tharaka
Nithi Senator Prof. Kithure Kindiki, was deposited with the Registrar of
Political Parties on Sunday night, just before the deadline for coalitions to
outline how they will relate before, during and after the general election, as
well as power sharing and government structures should they clinch the
presidency. In the power structure outlined in the Kenya
Kwanza coalition agreement, the presidential flag bearer position is reserved
for United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party headed by Deputy President William Ruto. The running mate slot is also reserved for UDA,
and particularly for the Mt. Kenya region. Save for the names of potential candidates,
this geo-location hint is expected is expected to end any further speculation on
the Ruto running mate question. The Kenya Kwanza power deal allocates Amani
National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi the Prime Cabinet Secretary
slot if Ruto clinches the presidency in the August State House race. The National Assembly Speaker’s seat is
reserved for Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula and his Ford Kenya party,
according to the Kenya Kwanza coalition agreement. The Senate speaker’s slot is allocated to
Pamoja African Alliance (PAA) led by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi who defected
to the Kenya Kwanza over the weekend. The coalition agreement provides for a
cabinet with 21 ministries that will be shared out in line with the pact. In the Ruto power structure, Mudavadi and
Wetangula will be allocated 30 per cent of the appointive government positions
should Kenya Kwanza win in the August polls. This includes the Prime Cabinet Secretary and
6 Cabinet Secretary slots, National Assembly Speaker and priority development
projects in Western Kenya region. To secure these plum slots, the coalition
agreement schedule requires Mudavadi and Wetangula to deliver at least 70 per
cent of the Western Kenya votes that will be cast in the August presidential
race. The five counties of Kakamega, Bungoma,
Vihiga, Busia and Trans Nzoia, which is administratively under Rift Valley region
but politically part of the Western region, have a combined total of 2,592,437
registered voters. Part of the priority development projects
negotiated by Mudavadi and Wetangula in the coalition agreement includes
completion of all incomplete or stalled bitumen roads, 1,000 kilometers of new
bitumen roads and resources to revive and modernise sugar factories such as
Mumias and Nzoia. Such projects are however subject to
adjustments to accommodate development priorities of other parts of the country. The primary Kenya Kwanza coalition agreement
has three founder parties; UDA, ANC and Ford Kenya, who shall be allocated Parliamentary
leadership positions on pro-rata basis, depending on the number of Parliamentary
seats won by each party. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, who ditched
Azimio la Umoja One Kenya team for Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza has negotiated for the
Senate Speaker slot, in the coalition agreement signed on Sunday night. He also secured a political promisory note
for his supporters’ appointment to top management positions at the Kenya Ports
Authority (KPA). The agreement’s schedule however requires
Kingi and his Pamoja African Alliance (PAA) party to secure for Ruto at least
50 per cent of the presidential votes cast in Kilifi County in the August State
House race; Kilifi County has 582,631 registered voters. In the agreement, Kingi’s PAA party will also
be supported by the coalition in the race for Malindi, Magarini, Ganze, Rabai and
Kaloleni parliamentary seats. Mutua’s Maendeleo Chap Chap negotiated for a
Cabinet Secretary slot in a ministry relevant to infrastructure or public
utilities, such energy or water, in the Kenya Kwanza government, if Ruto wins
in the August presidential race. If Mutua misses the ministerial flag, he
commits to settle for nomination in either the National Assembly or Senate and
backed to clinch the majority or minority leader in either of the Houses. He must however garner for Ruto at least 35
per cent of the presidential votes cast in three counties of Ukambani;
Machakos, Kitui and Makueni that have a combined voter population of 1.7
million people. It is an area considered a stronghold of
Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who is jostling for the running mate slot in the
Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party. And to avert the friction witnessed between President
Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto, the Kenya Kwanza coalition
agreement outlines and demarcates functions of the DP and the Prime Cabinet Secretary. The deputy president, according to the
agreement, will chair all cabinet committees, oversee implementation of cabinet
decisions, coordinate relations between the national and county governments,
coordinate planning and supervision of projects and programmes funded by
development partners, coordinate constitutional commissions and independent
bodies in matters that require national government intervention and undertake
any other functions assigned by the president. Ruto, who in a previous interview with Inooro
TV, lamented over what he termed mistreatment by President Kenyatta, if he
wins, will be required by the coalition agreement to respect, defend, guarantee
stature, dignity, financial and operational autonomy of the deputy president’s
office. On the other hand, the Prime Cabinet Secretary,
who will be appointed through an Executive order within 14 days if Kenya Kwanza
clinches the presidency, will be allocated five functions. Top among them; assisting the president and
deputy president in coordination and supervision of government ministries and
state departments, overseeing implementation of national government policies,
chairing and coordinating government legislative agenda across all ministries
and state departments for transmission to Parliament through leadership of both
Houses as well as coordinating and supervising the technical monitoring and
evaluation of government policies and projects. Other than the three prime constituent
members of the coalition, Kenya Kwanza has 11 other associate parties, and is
seeking more to sign up, through the provision of post election coalitions. According to the general agreements signed
between the three Kenya Kwanza founder parties and additional member parties,
the 11 parties, among them DP, Tujibebe, TSP and Chama Cha Kazi will be
allocated a share of the government, based on their contribution, including the
number of parliamentary and county seats garnered.  The coalition’s highest decision making
organ; the party leaders forum, will be chaired by Ruto with Mudavadi and Wetangula
as members.