Azimio La Umoja presidential hopeful Raila Odinga and his
running mate Martha Karua have vowed to weed out corruption in the country if
they ascend into power in the August General Election. Speaking on Sunday when they toured Narok County to drum up
support for their bid, the two termed the vice as one of the main problems
ailing the country which if tackled, Kenya will take a different course. “I will see to it that the law is followed to the latter.
Corrupt leaders have been stealing billions from our government every year and that
has to stop,” said Odinga. While describing his deputy as an astute and efficient
lawyer, Odinga exuded confidence that with her support, he would fight the war
on graft. “Martha is not a newbie in matters to do with the law, we
will make sure that they end up in Manyani, Shimo la Tewa, Kamiti and Naivasha.
I have been to those prisons and I can assure you that those kinds of people
will have their prison experience,” he said. He added that those who have looted from the state and taken
the resources to offshore accounts will not be spared either, saying, “Everyone
who has stolen public property will have no option but to return, even those
who have hidden it abroad, it will be repatriated back.” Ms. Karua on her part pledged to support Odinga in the fight
to weed out corruption and land injustices across the country. “I do not play when it comes to work matters, and our
government will be anchored on upholding justice for everyone in our society,”
said Karua. Describing Odinga as the father of devolution, Karua termed
him as the perfect candidate to sit at the helm of the country. “He is not called ‘Baba’ just for formality. He is a father,
the father of devolution, a father in the fight for liberation. He is a
selfless father whom we have seen put away his personal interests to shake
hands with the president for the sake of national peace.” She further urged voters to take time and assess their
leaders and make sure they vote for individuals with a good track record. “When you look at the two teams, it is clear which one you
can trust, and which team means business. Do not waste your vote on a team of
leaders who cannot be trusted even by their villages,” said Karua.  The pair was flanked by several leaders in the Azimio
brigade, among them Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, former Gatanga MP Peter
Kenneth.