Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has reiterated that no student
should be sent home due to lack of school uniform. Magoha said that student admissions should be done fairly
with the intention of giving equal opportunity to all learners, as per
President Uhuru Kenyatta's instructions. The CS was
speaking while overseeing the Form 1 admission process in Nyeri High
School on Wednesday. According to Magoha, if a student comes from a low-income
family but receives a government scholarship, the school should provide
uniforms and the cost should be deducted from the student's account. "There is too much talk about these uniforms that is not necessary and
as long as the child has arrived in school do not send them back home. The
policy of President Uhuru Kenyatta's government is that every child must
be at school," said Magoha. "And if you have a
completely indigent child who is from a very poor background, who is definitely
going to get a scholarship, they should be admitted, if you have any uniform in
the school you should give it so that when the money comes it will be
deducted." Magoha urged county and regional administrators to use fair
criteria when awarding scholarships to students, emphasizing that those who
cannot afford to pay for their high school education should be given priority. "For the sake of
uniformity as one government, as you give away scholarships in their respective
jurisdiction, can they select those children who cannot afford," noted
Magoha. "I plead with them
to identify poorer children who have been admitted to good schools by
affirmative action that these children do not drop out of school just because
the fees to the schools they have been admitted is high than normal." 38,797 students from last year's class will attend National
Schools, while 214,960 will attend Extra-County schools. Another 2,045 students will go to special-needs
schools, with 218, 456 reporting to county schools and 9,128 in refugee camps. At the same time,
726,311 candidates will be reporting to sub-county schools.  