Wiper running mate
Andrew Leteipa Ole Sunkuli has remained coy about the possibility of the party
leader Kalonzo Musyoka rejoining the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party despite
his alleged falling out with former premier Raila Odinga. Kalonzo left the
Odinga-led coalition almost two weeks ago after being snubbed for Azimio’s
running mate position, a slot which was eventually handed to NARC Kenya leader
Martha Karua. Despite having picked
Ole Sunkuli as the person to deputise his presidential bid at the August polls,
a section of Wiper leaders have since urged Kalonzo to rethink his presidency
bid and return to the Azimio camp. Speaking on Citizen
TV’s NewsNight show on Tuesday, Sunkuli clarified that the alleged rift between
Kalonzo and Raila is purely political and not personal; as such Kenyans cannot completely
rule out an alliance between the pair. “They had a political
disagreement over what many assumed was the running mate position but first of
all these people are friends. They have a political issue that probably needs
to be ironed out but even before he (Kalonzo) left for abroad he warned me and
other Wiper leaders against bad mouthing Raila,” he said. Kalonzo is currently
on a week-long tour of the United Kingdom, having left the country on Friday
last week. Sunkuli went on to
say that should the Wiper boss find himself in a position where he can only
achieve his vision for the county by working with Raila again, then he (Kalonzo)
will not hesitate to partner with the Azimio frontman. “I can’t confirm or deny but I
can say that I trust Kalonzo. He speaks from his heart, he means well for the
country, and he meant it when he said he was in the race to State House,” said Sunkuli. "In the same way he asked me
to choose between my Narok County Senatorial bid and the country when he
announced he wanted me as his running mate, I think even for him when he gets
to that junction he will chose the country.” Sunkuli consequently stated that
he will stick behind whatever decision the Wiper boss will make, if any, in
terms of rejoining Azimio once he returns from the United Kingdom. “If he (Kalonzo) decides to
choose the country and work with Odinga, I will do the same to support his
decision but that is not where we are at the moment. Right now we are in the
race.”