President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the government
is in the process of setting up an international-standard neuropsychiatric
hospital as part of ongoing efforts to address the challenge of mental health
in the country. Speaking during talks with Mr Kamel Ghribi,
chairman of GKSD, one of the top private hospitals in Italy, President Kenyatta
said mental health was a growing challenge in Kenya and the region, creating an
urgent need for a specialist hospital to cater for the rising cases. “This is something which has been long
overdue. This facility will help in tackling the growing cases of mental health
patients. Mental health is becoming one of the biggest health challenges in the
country and having a centre helping in tackling the problem will be great,”
President Kenyatta said. The construction of the 600-bed capacity
hospital will start mid next month on an 80-hectare parcel of land in
Karen/Ngong area. Besides offering treatment to mental health
patients, the hospital, with a walk-in capacity of 1000 patients daily, will
also host a specialist university to train mental health workers. President Kenyatta thanked GKSD for agreeing
to partner with Kenya in the setting up of the hospital, saying their support
will expand the country's capacity to address the rising cases of mental
illnesses. “It is quite in order to have a facility that
will attract the right skills and I highly appreciate,” the President said. On his part, Mr Ghribi assured the President
of his organization's full commitment to supporting Kenya achieve her objective
of offering quality and affordable mental health services not only to its
citizens but also to patients from the region. “We are committed to quality health services.
As an organization we will ensure this facility becomes a premier international
neuropsychiatric and wellness centre in Africa and beyond,” Mr Ghribi assured.  In the meeting, also attended by Head of
Public Service Dr Joseph Kinyua and Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, Amref Health Africa
signed an MOU with GKSD for consultancy services, development and delivery of
the mental health hospital.