Aspiring Lang'ata
Member of Parliament Felix Odiwuor, alias Jalang’o,
now says he expects to spend a maximum of Ksh.40 million
in his campaigns ahead of the August polls. Jalang’o, who recently secured the Orange
Democratic Movement (ODM) party ticket to vie for the seat, says that the funds
will go towards logistics of the campaign. “It is
not about handouts or anything like that, but for a well-oiled campaign, it
would easily cost about Ksh.30 million to Ksh.40 million so that you will be
able to move into every single place and articulate your issues,” the radio
presenter-turned-politician said in an interview on Citizen TVs Day Break show Friday
morning. He argued
that the 2022 elections will require politicians to dig deeper
into their pockets due to the COVID-19 pandemic which he said injured the
country’s economy and led to increased poverty levels. Jalang’o opined that politicians are forced
to tackle a myriad of issues facing the people during the campaign season, including
catering for basic needs of their relatively needy constituents. “This is going to be the most expensive
election for any politician because we are coming from the pandemic and you can
go to the ground to articulate issues out there but the situation forces you to
go beyond selling your ideologies to giving food and help to people,” he noted. In regard to how youthful politicians like
himself manage to raise funds for campaigns, the MP aspirant said that he held fundraisers,
put up kitties and also received donations from his friends. “I had my fundraiser in December 2021 in
which a few friends put in a good amount of money for me to start my campaigns;
and from time to time I have also had support from my constituency in Langa’ta,”
he stated. At the same time, Jalang’o pointed out that
young politicians who are vying on independent tickets have a far worse
experience than those in political parties in terms of finances and popularity. He highlighted that the popularity of a party
in some regions helps create a leeway for many politicians to clinch the respective
seats as compared to their counterparts who choose to go independent. "The party is well-structured out there
and makes it easy for you to even reach the people out there through its
structures; the structures which make it easy for you to maneuver through the
constituency and also make it better to have a party ticket than go
independent.," he said.  "You can't deny how deep-rooted party
politics is; it's better to have a party ticket than go as an independent
candidate.”