Former East African Community (EAC) Cabinet
Secretary Adan Mohamed has defended his decision to resign from a plum State
job to pursue a career in politics. In February, Mohamed like a number of other sitting CSs, made the leap into politics after announcing that he would pursue Mandera County’s governorship
seat at the August General Election instead of waiting for his term as minister
to expire. According to Mohamed, his decision was solely made with the County’s
best interest at heart underscoring that the affairs of Mandera's development has remained
stunted despite the country's switch to devolved units of government. “What matters is your own personal conviction and commitment. If you
think about it there are people who get into this because they are unemployed
and there are those that people describe like mad people like ourselves who are
leaving plum jobs,” Mohamed said on the NewsNight show. “I have looked at the county I want to represent and nothing has
happened there yet the effort of the government is now shifting much more to
and devolved solutions. If you want to make a difference and give it a try; we
are not mad people we just want to see how we make a difference and ultimately
the choice is for the people who need those services.” The former CS correspondingly urged voters in the county to elect
leaders who will positively bring change to the Mandera as he criticised
politicians giving hand outs during campaigns. “We don’t want people to mortgage the future of their children by
electing leaders who just give them today’s dinner,” he said. Mohamed also brushed off criticism from a section of his detractors who
were left fuming after the former CS clinched Jubilee’s ticket at the party’s
primaries in Mandera. Mohamed’s critics have since vowed to back his rivals
come August. According to Mohamed, making a few enemies comes with the legislative
gig.  “If you see someone called Mheshimiwa, you have to respect that person
because the road to get there is quite murky and convoluted and today people
are supporting you and the following day they are moving to your opponent and
so it is not a surprise to see some of my competitors supporting other people,”
he said.