President Uhuru Kenyatta has commended young
people who challenge themselves to do good within their communities through
hard work and commitment. Citing the example of Kenyan sprinter
Ferdinand Omanyala who last Saturday entrenched his prowess in the short races
by winning in this year’s World Athletics Continental Tour dubbed ‘KipKeino
Classic’, the President said the youth have the power and potential to drive
the country to new frontiers. “Of all the events in my presidential
itinerary, the ones that I most earnestly look forward to are events that
involve our young people because they are our nation’s future,” the President
said. President Kenyatta spoke on Friday at State
House, Nairobi, during this year’s President’s Award-Kenya presentation
ceremony. A total of 907 awardees, among them 25 young
people living with disability, received certificates for their exemplary
performance in various fields within their institutions and the community. The Head of State, who is also the patron of
the President’s Award-Kenya, congratulated the awardees for their exemplary
achievement. “Today, we celebrate the extraordinary
amongst our pupils, students and our young people who have lifted our spirits,
strengthened our resolve and pushed us toward a ground-breaking path of
progress in our country. “It is a profound inspiration for the entire
country whenever our young people make deliberate efforts to challenge themselves,
exploit their full potential and make a positive difference not only to
themselves but also to our society,” President Kenyatta said. He expressed satisfaction that through the
programme as well as the ongoing reforms in the education system, the youth are
learning to find opportunities within crisis. “Through both this Programme as well as the
ongoing reforms in our education system, our youth are learning to find
opportunities within crisis, to extend empathy and understanding, to care for
and protect the vulnerable, and to learn what servant-leaders do within their
communities,” the President said. Even as new awardees were admitted to the
roll of honour, President Kenyatta said previous awardees should also be
celebrated for the uncountable ways in which they made themselves, their
families, their communities and the nation better through their devotion to
service above self. Noting that Friday’s event is held a year
after the passing of the programme’s founder His Royal Highness Prince Philip,
President Kenyatta expressed the need to scale up the organization’s capacity
in harnessing the ingenuity of the youth and unlocking their full potential. The President also took the opportunity to
pay tribute to Esther Mureke-Kuria and John Mutembei who have distinguished
themselves through outstanding achievements across the spectrum of the Award
Programme. Esther Mureke-Kuria, a teacher and an Award
Leader from Nyeri High School, was recognised as one of the most inspiring
volunteers not just in Kenya but globally during the International Youth Day
2022. She pioneered the Award’s work in Kenyan prisons and has become a
positive role model to the boys who take part. On his part, John Mutembei is a former inmate
from Nyeri Maximum Prison who used the digital skills he acquired while
participating in the programme to launch an appeal against his conviction
through the Judiciary’s online filing system. The appeal was heard and
determined and Mutembei earned his freedom. President Kenyatta appreciated the private
sector and individuals who support the President’s Award-Kenya including world
fellows Mr. Dhiren Chandaria, Mr. James Ndegwa and Ms. Nikita Chandaria as well
as platinum benefactor Muhoho Kenyatta. “I urge, once again, more corporations and
individuals to step forward and join us in this noble national endeavour that
is geared towards unearthing skills, talents and competencies within our young
people and youthful citizens who are the future of our nation,” the President
said. Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George
Magoha extolled the benefits of the President's Award programee, saying it
should be expanded to accommodate more participants.  Other speakers included the President’s
Award-Kenya Board Chairman Father Dominic Wamugunda and Executive Director
Nellie Munala.