Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential
campaign secretariat has called out ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru for
openly backing former premier Raila Odinga’s State House bid. In a statement issued on Thursday, the
secretariat’s Director General Governor Josphat Nanok insinuated that by
endorsing Odinga, CS Mucheru was allegedly planning to influence the conduct
and the outcome of polls given his ministry’s important role in facilitating
the August exercise. Mucheru’s ministry will be tasked with
supervising and overseeing the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA) which
will provide the technological framework for IEBC to conduct digital
registration, digital tallying and relaying of election results electronically. The ICT ministry’s role, Nanok noted, affects
the verifiability, transparency, accountability and credibility of the August
polls, as such the CS should at the very least tread carefully when it comes to
interacting with Odinga in order to avoid raising eyebrows. “We call out CS Mucheru and his colleagues
for their open, flagrant and shameless association and promotion of one
political coalition and its presidential candidate,” Nanok said. “We have also noted public statements of
their commitment to abuse State office, misappropriate public resources,
pervert State institutions and defile the integrity of government in the quest
to secure an illegitimate win for their project.'” Nanok went on to reference a video of Mucheru
doing rounds on social media, in which the ICT minister declared that he was
working in tandem with Odinga to ensure that the August polls are conducted in “a
free and transparent manner.” He correspondingly questioned why Mucheru
would share any information regarding the planning of the elections with
Odinga, who he said does not hold any position in the CS' ministry let alone
the government. “What legal framework mandates a presidential
candidate to assign, direct, supervise and receive reports on election
manipulation from Cabinet Secretaries who are directly involved in elections?”
Nanok posed. “Mucheru's brazen statement highlights an
unfortunate trend by Cabinet Secretaries to pursue impunity, circumvent the
rule of law, corrupt public institutions, facilitate the commission of criminal
offenses and subvert our democracy.’’  Nanok likewise urged IEBC to take stern
action against persons planning to commit election offences.